The power of embracing failure is illustrated poignantly in an anecdote from David Bayles and Ted Orland's 1993 book Art and Fear: a ceramics teacher divides her class in two and tells one half that they'll be graded on the quantity of art they make, and so should make as many pieces as they can. The other half are told to focus on creating one piece, the quality of which will determine their grade. Though the latter group spent longer crafting a single work of art, they were outshone by the first group, which produced pieces of notably higher quality. Because they were able to learn from their mistakes with each subsequent piece they made, the students in the first group were able to develop both their skills and their creative ideas along the way.Just consider pioneering American aviator Amelia Earhart's story. When attempting to fly around the equator, she crashed her plane on takeoff. Despite this, she wasn't discouraged and pushed on with her flying career. She eventually achieved no less than six world records, including that of the first solo female pilot to fly across the Atlantic.American author W. Clement Stone once told the story of a girl who, after moving across America to join her husband, became dissatisfied with her new life. In a letter written by her mother, the girl learned of an old anecdote about two men in prison. When one looked up from the prison bars, he saw mud. When the other looked up, he saw stars. The girl realized that while she was unable to change her situation in life, she was able to change her attitude toward it. By adopting a positive outlook, she learned to discover new opportunities that her dissatisfaction had blinded her to.Take Sergio Zyman, a marketing executive for Coca-Cola in the 1980s. When Zyman launched the new Diet Coke range, it was hugely popular. This success bolstered Zyman's standing in the company and gave him more confidence in his daring ideas. So later, when Coca-Cola wanted to introduce a new formula for Coke, Zyman proposed to introduce it under the name "New Coke." Zyman believed the new idea would sell so well that he convinced Coca-Cola to stop producing the old version. To Zyman's surprise, New Coke was a complete flop. The rebranded bottles failed to sell, costing Coca-Cola approximately $100 million, and Zyman his job. To recover from this blow, Coca-Cola reintroduced their flagship drink under a new name: Coca-Cola Classic. As it turned out, Coca-Cola Classic was a huge hit. The drink became more popular than ever, and Zyman's failure to transform the brand in the first instance ended up leading to a great success for the company in the long run. In 1993, Coca-Cola chairman Roberto Goizueta rehired Zyman, acknowledging that daring thinkers can't be right every time.Edison worked for years to improve the telegraph machine, with little success. But along the way, he discovered something else entirely. By making certain adjustments to his failed telegraph machines, he was able to record sound that could be played back again and again. Edison used his lack of success in one pursuit as an opportunity to develop something entirely new. Twentieth-century author William Marston referred to experiences like Edison's as "drawing dividends from failure." Marston, who was an inventor as well as a psychologist, believed that this ability was crucial to success.Consider the story of the billionaire founder of Home Depot, Bernie Marcus. In 1978, he was fired from his role as CEO of hardware chain Handy Dan as a result of internal conflicts. At the time, Marcus's parents required his financial support to make ends meet. Marcus was determined never to fall victim to a corporate power struggle again. He enlisted Arthur Blank, a coworker that had also been fired from Handy Dan, and together they opened their own hardware store the following year. Today, their store - Home Depot - is known as one of the most successful retail endeavors in history.The author recounts the story of his friend, Greg Horn, whose supermarket was destroyed in the 1997 Kentucky floods. Ironically, Horn was insured for almost every type of damage and theft - except flood damage. The floods were beyond Horn's control. But he wasn't deterred by his unfortunate circumstances. Rather than giving up, Horn took responsibility for his situation and resolved to get his store up and running again as quickly as possible. While continuing to support all 80 of his employees, Horn got to work on fixing the store. The repairs cost him $1 million, but he was able to reopen the store only 21 days after the flood. Horn's story shows that we can only shape our future by taking responsibility for our circumstances.Think of American tennis player Roger Crawford. Crawford was born without many of his fingers and toes, a condition known as ectrodactylism. In spite of his condition, Crawford took the attitude that he was still responsible for his future. He chased his dream of becoming a professional tennis player, eventually receiving certification from the American Professional Tennis Association as the first American tennis professional with a disability. Crawford attributes his success to the responsibility he takes for his own life, which ran a very different course to another man he knew with ectrodactylism. Unlike Crawford, the man thought of himself as a victim of unfair circumstances, and he felt bitter about the world - an attitude that prevented him from succeeding.Charlie Brown is building a sand castle at the beach, which gets flattened by a wave. He looks down at the sand castle and knows there's something to be learned from the situation - but he doesn't attempt to figure out what the lesson is. Like Charlie Brown, in the wake of failure many people tell themselves that they don't have the time or energy to investigate what went wrong. But this simply puts us at risk of making the same mistake again. Identifying the causes of failure allows us to learn, grow and, in Charlie Brown's case, build sand castles farther away from the waves.Notts County manager Jimmy Sirrel once mentioned to Ferguson that he was always careful to make sure that player's contracts never expired around the same time. This helped prevent collusion against the manager and the club. Ferguson has kept that gem of wisdom to this day.Like listening, learning to observe well will also give you an edge. This is something Ferguson discovered when his assistant manager Archie Knox suggested that, rather than running his training sessions, he should sit back and watch them. This turned out to be a turning point in Ferguson's coaching career. When coaching right alongside his players, Ferguson's focus would be on the ball. By stepping back and observing his players train from a distance, the details of their performance were less visible. However, the overall patterns of their behavior, attitudes and energy levels suddenly became clear.Ferguson developed a system of closely watching and analyzing footage of opposing teams before a match. This strategy is what helped Ferguson's team win the 1999 Champions League Final against Bayern Munich. Based on the analysis and information he'd gleaned from the footage, he was able to predict Munich's two substitutions late in the game. He zoomed in on the details and zoomed out to the broader picture, demonstrating that flexible observational skills are indispensable for any manager.Ferguson is one of the toughest disciplinarians in soccer. When he began his career as manager at Manchester United, he first tackled particular problem areas. Players used to wear clothes of any company that sponsored them, giving the team a rather unprofessional, money-grabbing look. Ferguson swiftly implemented a proper dress code to eliminate this. Rules regarding haircuts and jewelry were also introduced, signaling to players that a lax attitude would not be tolerated.Discipline and determination go hand in hand, another attitude that players learned under Sir Alex. Take Cristiano Ronaldo, for example. When Ferguson brought him to United, Ronaldo's determination to become the world's greatest soccer player was clear as day. This determination is what allowed him to maintain such incredible discipline. Even today Ronaldo takes ice baths after every match and keeps his weight seven pounds below his optimal weight. Strict measures such as these allow him to keep playing football at an incredibly high level despite his age.At Manchester United, the players who performed the best during a match were always the ones who had prepared the most. David Beckham, Cristiano Ronaldo and Wayne Rooney were all known to stay late after training to perfect their free kicks. In 1996, David Beckham scored his now-infamous goal in a match against Wimbledon all the way from the halfway line. Viewers thought it was a miracle, but for Beckham it was nothing more than a prepared piece! He'd practiced the shot so many times after hours that he was able to seize the opportunity during the match.One great rule of thumb when it comes to managing a team is avoiding extremes. Take Ferguson's approach to the age of his team members. He didn't want to have only young and inexperienced members, but also didn't want only older, slightly less fit players. An equal mix of both was the best solution. Ferguson was also careful to ensure his team had a balanced amount of creative players and dependable players.Team managers must also keep their expectations balanced. Ferguson learned this lesson early on in his career. After an eight-game winning streak, he declared to the press that his team wouldn't lose a single game that season. Yet, just after this bold announcement, his team went on to lose all but one game, finishing in sixth place. Ferguson then recognized that high expectations only serve to put pressure on players. Instead of being encouraging, high expectations usually lead to a weaker performance.First off, great leaders make their presence felt. Sometimes without even realizing it! Ferguson had no idea that his presence was so important to his team until he missed a few training sessions. Rio Ferdinand, one of his players, revealed that the sessions simply didn't have the same energy as when Ferguson was coaching. Ferguson recognized that his presence itself was a motivating factor. Over his 27 years of management, Ferguson was present at all but three of 1,500 United games.In the same way that young people begin as trainees at a corporation with the aim of working their way up to vice-president or CEO, a young player at Manchester United works their way up from the youth academy to the B team. From there, they can graduate to the A team, then to the reserve team, and ultimately, to the first-team squad. FC Barcelona takes a similar approach to training their young players. Here, the benefits of allowing young players to grow together over years are particularly clear. Think of the great trio of Lionel Messi, Andres Iniesta and Xavi Hernandez. Having trained together for so long, these players know each other extremely well and have an incredibly advanced and unpredictable passing game that stuns defenders!When David Beckham was criticized harshly in the press for receiving a red card in a 1998 World Cup match against Argentina, Ferguson knew the least helpful thing he could do was to criticize Beckham like everyone else. Instead, he spoke with Beckham to let him know that he was there for him, that these things happen and that he shouldn't let it hurt his confidence. Ultimately, Ferguson believes that the two words "well done" are the most powerful tools a coach has to help players reach their full potential.As a child of the Great Depression, young Warren learned the value of money. In 1932, when the Depression hit Warren's hometown of Omaha, Nebraska, his father lost his job as a securities salesman for a local bank. But his dad was resourceful and soon began his own company, selling safe and reliable stocks and bonds. Earnings were meager. Indeed, they could afford so little food that Warren's mother would often give her portion to Howard so that he would have a decent meal. These difficult times left a lasting impression on Warren Buffett, and fueled his desire for the kind of security and stability that money can buy.Buffett always looked forward to visiting his father's office, and, when Warren was ten, Howard took him on an exciting business trip to New York, where they visited the Stock Exchange. A year later, when he was eleven, Warren made his first profit by buying and selling stocks along with his sister, Doris. To afford these stocks, Warren had undertaken many entrepreneurial activities, such as roaming the local golf course to collect lost golf balls and then selling them back to the owner.At the age of 14, Warren was in charge of five separate paper routes, which had him getting up early every morning, delivering papers and collecting subscription fees. By saving every cent he made, Warren purchased 40 acres of land for $1,200. He wasn't yet fifteen.With straight A's as an undergrad, Buffett was surprised when his application for postgraduate studies was rejected by the Harvard Business School. But this rejection might have been for the best, since his professor at Columbia Business School (which accepted him) would have a massive impact on his life. That professor was economist Benjamin Graham, a pioneer in stock-market analysis with a unique approach to finding the right investments. With his buying strategy, Graham became a legend for purchasing low-risk stocks and netting a high profit. Buffett loved Graham's philosophy, which became the guiding force in his own practice. During and after Buffett's time at Columbia, his relationship with Graham flourished. In Graham's 22 years of teaching, he'd never had an A+ student. Buffett was his first. After earning his graduate degree, Buffett was eventually hired to work for Ben Graham's Wall Street investment firm, Graham-Newman Corp.One of his more memorable deals involved a chocolate company and realizing a way for everyone to benefit when the price of cocoa suddenly skyrocketed in 1954. A local New York chocolate maker was looking to Graham-Newman for help and Buffett saw that they could liquidate millions of pounds of cocoa and sell the beans to stockholders in their company. Based on the price of cocoa "futures," this netted the company, and Buffett, a nice reward with every transaction.Finally, in 1961, Buffett took the next big step and purchased controlling interest in a company. It was the largest investment he'd made so far - a full million dollars of his partnership's money, which he put into Dempster Mill Manufacturing, a struggling windmill company that most other investors wouldn't go near. But Buffett knew it had solid intrinsic value, and his investment had made him chairman of the board for the company. He went to work sorting out their troubled finances. A year later, the company was on the path to profit, with $2 million worth of stock being traded at twice the price of what Buffett had initially paid. By 1963, that price was at three times its initial value and it was time for Buffett to move on, so he sold the company and earned his partners a $2.3 million profit.Berkshire Hathaway had started out as a textile manufacturer in 1839. But, in the early 1960s, American textile companies were losing a lot of business to the cheaper manufacturing markets in Asia and Latin America. So when Buffett began buying its stock in 1962, it was selling at only $7.60 per share. The company was in dire straits. However, when Buffett did his homework to add up its intrinsic value, he saw that the company should be trading at $16.50 per share. This made Berkshire Hathaway an amazing bargain that he couldn't pass up, so he bought every stock he could get his hands on and, eventually, became the majority shareholder. Though it would always struggle as a textile company, it succeeded as a holding company for Buffett's more successful companies - such as the insurance company National Indemnity Co., which he purchased in 1967 for $8.6 million. So even though textiles only earned Berkshire around $45,000 in profit per year, its holdings of National Indemnity stock earned it about $2.1 million.As the country and the economy moved into the 1980s, Buffett's investment philosophy began to move in a new direction, too. By the time the 1980s arrived, his longtime mentor Ben Graham had died and Buffett was no longer focusing on small, undervalued companies. He was buying big, recognizable businesses like the Washington Post and the insurance company GEICO. But though he'd outgrown Graham's method, he still used it in principle. Rather than relying on a company's financial assets to measure its intrinsic value, he now expanded his view to include its entire brand.In 1980, the newly elected president Ronald Reagan made a pledge to turn the struggling economy around. To help with this, Reagan cut interest rates, which the influential economist Henry Kaufman predicted would only continue to decrease. This new environment sent people into a buying spree. With low interest rates, stocks become more attractive to buyers, and the Dow jumped 38.81 points, setting a new record high.Though none of this changed Buffett's own patient and methodical investment philosophy, Berkshire Hathaway continued to reap the rewards. The Dow was going through the roof, and Berkshire's stock rose right along with it. By the end of 1983, its shares were selling at $1,310 dollars. Berkshire Hathaway's holdings were now worth $1.3 billion. As for Buffett himself, over the course of four years in the 1980s, his net worth went from $140 million to $620 million. And in 1985, with the markets continuing to boom, Buffett finally made the <em>Forbes</em> magazine annual list of billionaires.Buffett has never liked the idea of America having an elite class. Even in the early 1960s, when segregation was still widespread, Buffett defied many of his peers when he boycotted the local Rotary Club over its refusal to accept non-white members. And unlike many wealthy citizens, Buffett has spoken out against tax cuts for the rich - or, as he calls it, "welfare for the rich" - despite the fact that such tax cuts would benefit his own finances.Since his late 20s, Buffett has struggled to figure out what to do with his riches, since he doesn't live a glamorous lifestyle with expensive cars, homes or clothing. Nor does he want his children to rely on his success. Instead, he has always taught them to forge their own paths in life and earn their own livings. So, in 2006, after his wife Susan passed away, he finally decided that he would donate most of it to charity. One sixth of his fortune has been divided among different Buffett family foundations, and the rest will be allocated over time to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which helps fight disease in developing nations.Cats know this instinctively: You won't catch a mouse if you rush things. You need to sit on the lookout for ages, waiting for the perfect moment to pounce.It's no different for humans. If you want to succeed, you need impeccable timing. This entails the ability to wait patiently for opportunity just as much as the ability act quickly when it finally comes along.Early on, the high-frequency trading firm UNX saw its profits rise when it increased the speed of its transactions. To further boost profits, the firm moved its headquarters from California to New York, reducing the distance electronic transactions would have to travel. In doing so, UNX cut transaction times from 65 milliseconds to 30 milliseconds. Suddenly the company's profits started dropping. Unable to figure out why, the firm decided to return transaction speeds to the slower pace of 65 milliseconds. And as a result, profits also returned to positive levels. When trading happens too fast, traders can get caught in wide price swings, potentially leading to serious losses. Knowing this, financial experts are constantly seeking that "sweet" speed to optimize high-frequency trades that provides just enough delay for a trader to avoid expensive mistakes. Once a tennis player sees that his opponent is serving the ball, he has approximately 300 milliseconds to make a move. Skilled players are different can and will wait up to 200 milliseconds, taking in as much visual information as possible, before hitting the ball. Tennis is a great example of the human capacity for preconscious preparatory skills. A player has just enough time to pause, letting his unconscious mind formulate the best response but not enough time to consciously plan a move. Split-second timing plays an essential role in business and finance, too.Subliminal messages can have a profound effect, changing the way you act and think. Cult classic, Fight Club has a single frame showing a full-frontal nude male. While the only way the human eye can consciously "see" such an image is to watch the movie one frame at a time, the image can and does enter our subconscious, if even just for a millisecond.In 1957, James Vicary was purported to have flashed subliminal messages on the screen of a New Jersey movie theater using a high-speed tachistoscope, a tool that projects images for a set duration. The images, which flashed too quickly for moviegoers to consciously perceive, supposedly urged them to eat popcorn and drink Coca-Cola.  According to Vicary, that theater saw popcorn sales rise by 58 percent and Coca-Cola sales jump by 18 percent. Once Vicary's experiment went public, however, it caused a big scandal, with the public expressing hostility toward advertising agencies. Yet later Vicary said he lied about the experiment; decades afterward study after study failed to prove with certainty the effect of subliminal images on human behavior.Recently, however, new evidence has come to light suggesting that subliminal images can, in fact, produce a long-term effect on human behavior. In 2008, a study found that repeatedly flashing the Apple logo to people without their knowledge increased creativity, more than for those who were subliminally shown the IBM logo.A study showed that people who were exposed to messages or words related to old age or aging actually changed their behaviour, and began to walk more slowly, perform worse in memory tests and even became more politically conservative!Experts don't need to think before making a decision. In 1985, psychologist Gary Klein interviewed fireground commanders, the people in charge of firefighting operations, to determine how they made decisions in emergency situations. Their answers were unanimous, in that they said they knew what to do, without deliberation, based on their experience. If a fire had spread, they would focus on rescuing people; if the fire was just beginning to spread, they would direct efforts toward putting it out. Yet novices trust gut instincts, because they don't necessarily have them yet.Klein performed another study in which paramedics and medical students watched videos of six people performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). The participants didn't know that only one of the six people in the videos was an actual paramedic. When asked which person they'd trust most to resuscitate them in an emergency, 90 percent of the paramedics instinctively chose the most qualified person, the paramedic. Yet just 30 percent of the students were able to identify the professional from the rest.US Navy Captain William Rogers could quickly discern enemy planes from civilian ones, but only when he had access to information provided by the ship's controls. On one fateful day in 1988, the ship's controls failed, and with this, Rogers ceased to function at an expert level. Under pressure, he made a wrong decision, shooting down a suspicious-looking plane that turned out to be a civilian airliner. His mistake resulted in the deaths of 290 civilians. Thinking too quickly or going with your gut can lead to unintentional discrimination.Irene LaCota, president of the dating service It's Just Lunch, refuses on principle to let people see photos of a potential match. She thinks the quick reactions people make based on physical appearance are flawed.Humans aren't great at comparing short-term and long-term benefits. Psychiatrist George Ainslie found that, when offered a choice between $50 now and $100 in the future, most people chose the $50 up front. But he also found that the same people would rather receive $100 dollars in six years than $50 in five years - which is essentially the same offer, just five years in the future. The decision is skewed by short-term benefits in the first instance, but not in the second. And it's for this same reason that people tend to choose being happy over being happy later.President Barack Obama also deftly uses delay to his advantage, especially when diplomatically side-stepping tough interview questions. When Osama bin Laden was captured by US forces on May 2, 2011, Obama gave a 35-minute interview to CBS correspondent Steve Kroft. In what turned out to be a highly dynamic interview, Kroft asked the president out of the blue if this event was the first time he had ordered someone to be killed. Obama, however, didn't jump to answer. He bided his time, avoiding the pointed question about illegal government assassinations, and instead carefully composed a statement about sending troops into combat with the awareness that lives would be lost. Yale professor Frank Zhang examined a stock market crash on May 6, 2010 that lasted just 18 minutes but resulted in losses of trillions of dollars. He found that the rapid pace of trading had drastically increased the volatility of the market, leading to extreme swings in the value of financial products.Many successful individuals actually made it a habit to never openly criticize others. Benjamin Franklin, for instance, claimed that the secret of his success was to "speak ill of no man." Abraham Lincoln learned this lesson as well. He used to publicly criticize his opponents, until one day his criticism almost forced him into a saber duel. From that moment on, he stopped openly criticizing others. During the Civil War, he famously told those who spoke harshly of the Southerners, "Don't criticize them; they are just what we would be under similar circumstances."Whenever Theodore Roosevelt was about to meet someone for the first time, he thoroughly prepared for the meeting by reading everything he could about the other person's interests. He understood that the route to any person's good graces is the ability to talk about the things they value the most.Dale Carnegie, for example, once wanted to brighten the day of a bored service employee, so he told him, "I certainly wish I had your head of hair." Benjamin Disraeli was certainly right when he said, "Talk to people about themselves, and they will listen for hours."Theodore Roosevelt was popular among all his staff because he made a habit of greeting them all by their names. He also deliberately made time for listening to them and tried to remember what they said. By doing this, he showed others his appreciation, and he got far more back in return.Benjamin Franklin made it a habit to never openly oppose others. When speaking to others, he even banished certain expressions from his vocabulary such as "certainly" and "undoubtedly." He felt they were too rigid and reflected an unbending mindset. Rather, he used phrases like "I conceive" or "I imagine."Dale Carnegie experienced this once when a police officer caught him walking his dog without a muzzle. Even before the officer began to talk, Carnegie himself expressed how very, very sorry he was, and how unacceptable his misdeed was. Normally, the officer might have been very critical and preachy, but thanks to this upfront admission of guilt, the officer did the opposite: he accepted Carnegie's apology and let him go without a fine.Imagine you're looking for a woman in a crowd. Your mind deliberately focuses on the task: it recalls characteristics of the person and anything that would help locate her. This focus helps eliminate potential distractions, and you barely notice other people in the crowd. If you maintain this focused attention, you might spot her within a matter of minutes, whereas if you're distracted and lose focus, you'll have trouble finding her. What do you think when you see the word fragment "SO_P"? Probably nothing. What if you first consider the word "EAT"? Now, when you look again at the word "SO_P," you would probably complete it as "SOUP." This process is known as priming. We're primed when exposure to a word, concept or event causes us to summon related words and concepts. If you had seen the word "SHOWER" instead of "EAT" above, you probably would've completed the letters as "SOAP."Just as the mind is affected by hearing certain words and concepts, the body can be affected as well. A great example of this can be found in a study in which participants primed with words associated with being elderly, such as "Florida" and "wrinkle," responded by walking at a slower pace than usual.Research done by Kathleen Vohs proves that the concept of money primes individualistic actions. People primed with the idea of money - for example, through being exposed to images of money - act more independently and are less willing to be involved with, depend on or accept demands from others. One implication of Vohs's research is that living in a society filled with triggers that prime money could nudge our behavior away from altruism.Imagine you meet someone named Ben at a party, and you find him easy to talk to. Later, someone asks if you know anybody who might want to contribute to their charity. You think of Ben, even though the only thing you know about him is that he is easy to talk to.You liked one aspect of Ben's character, and so you assumed you would like everything else about him. We often approve or disapprove of a person even when we know little about them.If we ask the question, "Is James friendly?", we're very likely to consider James friendly - because the mind automatically confirms the suggested idea. This is because of confirmation bias: tendency for people to agree with information that supports their previously held beliefs, as well as to accept whatever information is suggested to them.Take this question, for example: "That woman is a candidate for sheriff. How successful will she be in office?" We automatically substitute the question we're supposed to answer with an easier one, like, "Does this woman look like someone who will make a good sheriff?" This heuristic means that instead of researching the candidate's background and policies, we merely ask ourselves the far easier question of whether this woman matches our mental image of a good sheriff. Unfortunately, if the woman does not fit our image of a sheriff, we could reject her - even if she has years of crime-fighting experience that make her the ideal candidate.Strokes cause many more deaths than accidents but one study found that 80 percent of respondents considered an accidental death a more likely fate. This is because we hear of accidental deaths more in the media, and because they make a stronger impression on us; we remember horrific accidental deaths more readily than deaths from strokes, and so we may react inappropriately to these dangers.Imagine a large taxi company has 20 percent yellow cabs and 80 percent red cabs. That means the base rate for yellow taxi cabs is 20 percent and the base rate for red cabs is 80 percent. If you order a cab and want to guess its color, remember the base rates and you will make a fairly accurate prediction. We should therefore always remember the base rate when predicting an event, but unfortunately this doesn't happen. In fact, base-rate neglect is extremely common.If a football striker who averages five goals per month scores ten goals in September, her coach will be ecstatic; but if she then goes on to score around five goals per month for the rest of the year, her coach will probably criticize her for not continuing her "hot streak." The striker wouldn't deserve this criticism, though, because she is only regressing to the mean!For an example of this dominance of the remembering self, take this experiment, which measured people's memories of a painful colonoscopy. Before the colonoscopy, the people were put into two groups: the patients in one group were given long, rather drawn-out colonoscopies, while those in the other group were given much shorter procedures, but where the level of pain increased towards the end. You'd think the most unhappy patients would be those who endured the longer process, as their pain was endured for longer. This was certainly what they felt at the time. During the process, when each patient was asked about the pain, their experiencing self gave an accurate answer: those who had the longer procedures felt worse. However, after the experience, when the remembering self took over, those who went through the shorter process with the more painful ending felt the worst. This survey offers us a clear example of duration neglect, the peak-end rule, and our faulty memories.In what's known as the Mr. Jones experiment, two groups of psychiatric professionals were asked if it was safe to discharge Mr. Jones from the psychiatric hospital. The first group were told that patients like Mr. Jones had a "10 percent probability of committing an act of violence," and the second group were told that "of every 100 patients similar to Mr. Jones, 10 are estimated to commit an act of violence." Of the two groups, almost twice as many respondents in the second group denied his discharge.Take these two statements: This drug protects children from disease X but has a 0.001 percent chance of permanent disfigurement" versus "One of 100,000 children who take this drug will be permanently disfigured." Even though both statements are equal, the latter statement brings to mind a disfigured child and is much more influential, which is why it would make us less likely to administer the drug.So imagine two people, John and Jenny, who both have fortunes of $5 million. According to utility theory, they have the same wealth, meaning they should both be equally happy with their finances.But let's say that their $5 million fortunes are the end-result of a day at the casino, and the two had vastly different starting points: John walked in with a mere $1 million and quintupled his money, whereas Jenny came in with $9 million that dwindled down to $5 million. Do you still think John and Jenny are equally happy with their $5 million? We understand value as much by our starting point as by the actual objective value.Imagine these two scenarios for example: In the first scenario, you're given $1,000 and then must choose between receiving a definite $500 or taking a 50 percent chance to win another $1,000. In the second scenario, you're given $2,000 and must then choose between a sure loss of $500 or taking a 50 percent chance on losing $1,000. If we made purely rational choices, then we would make the same choice in both cases. But this isn't the case. In the first instance, most people choose to take the sure bet, while in the second case, most people take a gamble. We understand value as much by our starting point as by the actual objective value.If we want to know what clothes to wear in summer, we base our decisions on our image of that season's weather. Even when available statistics and data disagree with our mental pictures, we still let the images guide us. In summer, the weather forecaster might predict relatively cool weather, yet you might still go out in shorts and a T-shirt, as that's what your mental image of summer tells you to wear. You may then end up shivering outside!if you like oranges more than you like kiwis, then you're also going to take a 10 percent chance of winning an orange over a 10 percent chance of winning a kiwi.Collecting information by reading newspapers takes a lot of time. Go on a low-information diet and focus on obtaining only the small amount of information that is actually relevant to your work.The same goes for pointless chatter with colleagues. Avoid it, or focus on the subject at hand. When people approach you, don't ask, "How are you?" but rather "What can I do for you?" Tell people upfront, "Sorry, but I only have two minutes, so let's get down to business."To test the market, offer your hypothetical product to real customers. One way to do this is to create a fake web store that does everything a real web store would do except that after people click "Purchase," a message tells them the product is currently out of stock. This will show you how many people are willing to buy your product. Make sure you collect the email addresses of these hypothetical customers though, so you can tell them once your product is actually available.Another way of testing your product is to set up fake online advertising campaigns. Compare several ads to see which versions of your product generate the best response and lead people to click "Purchase" most often. Tim Ferriss used this approach to find the best title for his book: out of several options, The 4-Hour Workweek got the most clicks.Academic titles such as PhDs are always a good way to make yourself more credible, but you can also prove your expertise by writing articles about topics related to your product or by holding related seminars. In other words, if you want to sell health products, make sure you become a health guru first.People tend to trust larger companies more than they trust small ones. Hence, always try to make your company appear bigger than it is. Whether it's true or not, give people the impression they are dealing with a company with many employees. For instance, provide several contact email addresses on your website. Use titles that sound like middle-management such as "head of customer support" to give the impression there's a multi-layer hierarchy with lots of employees in the company.Make it as easy as possible for your customers to buy your product without them having to make a bunch of decisions first. The more choices a customer has - for example, between colors - the more likely he will cancel the purchase and walk away.Stop checking your emails in the morning and get your important tasks done by lunch. If you're like most people, you probably check your emails first thing in the morning. This is a mistake, because your mornings should be dedicated to the highest-priority tasks you have for the day, and checking your inbox will only slow you down.A mantra is a simple, frequently repeated statement that reminds the employees why the company exists. For example, Nike's mantra is "Authentic athletic performance" and Disney's is "Fun family entertainment."You may think that a company's mission statement already performs the same function, but a mantra is different in that it is shorter, more direct and more memorable. For example, Coca-Cola's mission statement is "The Coca-Cola Company exists to benefit and refresh everyone it touches." That's a mouthful. But if we formulate a hypothetical mantra for the same company, we could come up with something like "Refresh the world," which is much catchier and easier to keep in mind.Only accept partnerships that will positively affect your financial forecast. This means your partner has to enable you to, for example, reduce costs, accelerate product development or enter a new market. In its early days, Apple partnered with the Aldus Corporation, which had produced a desktop publishing program called PageMaker. Apple needed a "killer application" that would run on its computers, whereas Aldus needed a channel through which to sell its software. As a result of the partnership, both companies flourished.Contagious products are cool. The iPod was successful partly because it was the first cool Mp3 player. Contagious products are effective or excellent at what they do. The TiVo, for example, became an iconic digital video recorder because it allowed you to record your favorite TV shows so effortlessly. Contagious products are distinctive, or noticeably different from the competition. Consider the Hummer, for example - you wouldn't confuse it with any other car.To create a recognizable brand, you also need to build a community of users around them. These communities provide support to users and make the experience of using the product or service a more satisfying one. For example, Coca-Cola's loyal fans started a Facebook fan page that gained over one million followers.Your positioning should also be formulated so that it speaks specifically to your target group of customers. For example, let's say your company sells security software for banks. Which one of the following two positioning statements would you rather go with: "Increasing the security of websites," or "Reducing the risk of online-transaction fraud for commercial banks"? The latter is far more effective at speaking to the target customer.A second factor in successful positioning is that it should feel personally relevant to the individual customer. For example, if you've invented an innovative new kind of sunblock, you shouldn't be saying, "Can reduce global cancer rates by up to three percent," but instead, "Prevents you from getting melanoma."If you're an expert in audio technology, you might proudly proclaim: "Our hearing aids use digital signal processing," but this won't mean anything to an audience of investors. When preparing your pitch always ask yourself "So what?" after everything you want to say. Then prepare to answer that "so what" using a few clarifying, vivid examples. So again, if you want to say: "Our hearing aids use digital signal processing," ask yourself "So what?" Your response could be: "Because our hearing aids make sounds clearer." Then use a real life example to really make the matter crystal clear: "So if you're at a party with a lot of ambient noise, you'll still be able to hear your conversation partner perfectly." This is a benefit anyone can understand.You may never have heard of it, but once upon a time, a company called Univac led the computing market. But the company made a crucial error of judgment: it saw its computers as sophisticated tools to be used by scientists only, and therefore only produced machines suitable for complicated scientific calculations. At this time, however, another company realized that businesses were also interested in the potential of computing, and so it began building machines targeted at this new consumer market. Though the name Univac is long forgotten, you may have heard of this second company. It's IBM. Always keep an open mind and look for non-obvious customers and uses for your products.Acting superior to your bosses could lead your boss to think of you as a threat to their position and, consequently, to let you go from the company. Take the relationship between King Louis XIV of France and Nicolas Fouquet, the king's finance minister. A smart and loyal advisor, Fouquet became indispensable to his ruler, but this didn't guarantee him the position of prime minister when the incumbent minister died. To gain the king's favor, Fouquet threw a lavish party at his extravagantly furnished chateau to show the king how well-connected and influential he was. The next day, Fouquet was arrested by order of the king, who felt overshadowed and dubiously accused the minister of stealing to amass such extravagant wealth. Poor Fouquet was bound to live out his days in a prison cell.So, you know how not to impress your boss, but how can you gain her favor? A better strategy is to always make the person in charge look smarter than everyone else, including you. For example, the astronomer and mathematician Galileo Galilei desperately wanted funding for his research, and found an ingenious way to get it. When he discovered the four moons of Jupiter in 1610, he made sure to link his discovery to the enthronement of Cosimo II de' Medici. In an act of cunning, Galileo said that the four moons represented Cosimo II and his three brothers, while Jupiter itself was comparable to Cosimo I, the four brothers' father. Thanks to playing to his ruler's ego, Galileo was named the official philosopher and mathematician of Cosimo II.Why would you waste your energy doing things for yourself if somebody else can do them for you? For instance, did you know that the Serbian scientist Nikola Tesla worked for the famous inventor Thomas Edison? And it was actually Tesla, not Edison, who was key in creating Edison's famed dynamo by improving what was at the time Edison's rather primitive design. To make this discovery, Tesla worked tirelessly for an entire year, often clocking 18-hour days in the lab. But today, it's Edison's name that is attributed to the dynamo. But reaping the benefits of work done by others isn't enough - you'll also need to take credit for it. For example, Edison and his company claimed all the credit for Tesla's work on the dynamo. Edison didn't so much as share a penny of his profits with Tesla, even though he had promised him $50,000! So, keeping Tesla's experience in mind, remember that the credit given for an invention or creation of any kind is just as essential as the invention itself.Take the art dealer Joseph Duveen, who in 1920 resolved to win over the industrialist Andrew Mellon as a client. But Mellon was not easily convinced, so Duveen decided to bribe Mellon's staff to pass him secret information about their employer. When the industrialist traveled to London, Duveen made sure to follow him. The dealer showed up at the same art gallery Mellon was visiting, supposedly by chance, and engaged him in a vibrant conversation. Since Duveen knew so much about what Mellon liked, he easily gained his favor by making him believe that they shared common tastes in art, among other things. As a result, the encounter ended on good terms and Mellon soon became Duveen's best client.Take the famous 1972 chess match between Bobby Fischer and the Russian champion Boris Spassky. Fischer knew that Spassky's technique was to target the routines and predictability of his opponent, and Fischer used this information to his advantage by playing as unpredictably as possible. Even in the days leading up to the match, Fischer made it seem unclear whether or not he would be able to make it to Reykjavik, where the pair was set to play. And when he did arrive, it was moments before the match was set to be cancelled due to his absence. After this stunt, Fischer proceeded to complain about everything from the lighting to the chairs and noise in the room. When they finally began the tournament's first match, Fischer made careless mistakes before giving up, an odd move since he was known for his persistence. Spassky couldn't tell if he was actually making mistakes or just bluffing. At this point, Fischer had Spassky just where he wanted him: when your competitor is sufficiently confused, you're in a perfect position to win. Doing things that perplex your opponent will cause him to try to explain your behavior and distract him from the task at hand, giving you the chance to strike. So, after two games of chess, Fischer began winning game after game with bold moves. When all was said and done, Spassky conceded and Fischer was named world champion.Take the case of Bertolt Brecht, a writer of revolutionary, communist ideas who immigrated to the United States in 1941 to join other intellectuals exiled from Europe. After World War II, Brecht and his peers were summoned before the US Congress, which was investigating a supposed communist infiltration of Hollywood. While his fellow radicals caused a commotion and challenged the authority of Congress by yelling and being uncooperative, Brecht was calm and politely answered the questions he was asked. Because of his good behavior, Brecht was released by the government, which even offered to help him with his immigration procedure - in the end, their offer was irrelevant because he left the country and continued writing about his firm beliefs. And his stubborn friends? They were blacklisted, unable to publish for years!So, do as Brecht did and make surrender a tool of self-empowerment.Take Louis-Philippe, king of France during the 1830s and 40s. He despised royal ceremonies, as well as all the symbols associated with the throne. In defiance of the formalities of his position, he was infamous for wearing a gray hat and holding an umbrella in place of his crown and scepter. In fact, he didn't even keep the company of royalty, mostly befriending bankers instead. But the king's behavior didn't do him any good - he was soon hated by both the rich and the poor. Wealthy people disapproved of the unlikely king, while the poor disliked a king who acted like the lower classes but didn't look out for them. Even his banker friends turned on him when they found they could insult him without the fear of being reprimanded. All of this hatred mounted until the people rose up against him and he was forced to abdicate the throne. In general, people are suspicious of higher-ups who act like their equals; doing so leads people to thinking you're dishonest, as they'll assume your modest ways are a sly trick to cloud your privileges.If you believe you're above others and act in this way, other people will begin to believe you're superior, too. When people see you acting superiorly, they'll assume there is good reason for you to do so. Christopher Columbus behaved like royalty and, consequently, most people viewed him as such. In fact, it was his confident socializing with the Spanish royal family that eventually convinced the Spanish throne to finance his voyages.Picture yourself as Chuko Liang, head strategist for the ancient Chinese state of Shu. War has just been declared on China by King Menghuo from the south and stopping him and saving the country lies in your hands. But before learning what you should do, it's essential to know what not to do. First of all, using force and coercive tactics is never wise, even when they're the easiest choice. In fact, if you do exercise your strength, people will secretly resent you because force breeds resistance. Liang knew this and didn't attack with force, even though he probably would have defeated the invading army. However, if he had, Menghuo would have resented both China and Liang and the country would have to continuously protect itself. This would have exhausted everyone involved and bred paranoia. A better strategy is seduction. People tend to be controlled by their emotions, and by playing on their feelings, you can make them do what you want - of their own free will. When Menghuo attacked China, Liang captured him and his entire army. Menghuo was separated from his soldiers and expected the worst, but to his great surprise he was offered delicious food and wine instead. While Liang released his enemy's soldiers, he would only let Menghuo go when the enemy king promised that if he was ever captured again, he would bow to the Chinese king. And while Liang captured Menghuo several more times, he always let him go. Then, on the seventh capture, Menghuo dropped to Liang's feet, surrendering himself and his kingdom. Even though Liang could have killed Menghuo when he captured him, a fact that the enemy king was aware of, he gave him plenty of chances and treated him well each time. As a result, Menghuo grew increasingly grateful and indebted to the Chinese king, until he finally surrendered of his own volition.If you really want to change, you need to work from the inside out. Only once you've drastically changed yourself can you start to change the world around you. If, for example, you would like to have a happy marriage, you must first become a more positive person yourself.To stay physically fit, you need to take regular exercise, eat healthily and avoid undue stress. To stay mentally healthy, you should, as far as possible, read plenty of good books, make time for your own writing in some form - be it letters or a diary - and actively plan your future according to your long-term goals. Take care of your social and emotional health by forming as many positive relationships as possible and never neglecting your social needs. Spiritual health also contributes greatly to lasting effectiveness: this can mean praying or meditating, but it can also mean regularly confronting your own norms and values and reflecting actively upon them. Most importantly, you should consciously make time to recuperate and recharge.An extreme example of true proactivity was Viktor Frankl, who was able to maintain control over his own feelings during his time in concentration camps, including Auschwitz. He simply decided that he was not going to allow his tormentors to control his innermost feelings.Many people, by contrast, are not proactive in life, but rather reactive. They react to external circumstances and their behavior and emotions are dependent on what goes on around them. Hence, for example, they can be in a good mood only if the weather is also good. People who are proactive, on the other hand, determine their own weather.Not knowing what's really important to you and what you're working towards is like climbing a ladder which is set against the wrong wall. To avoid this, it is important to first be clear about your long-term goals. To this end, it can be useful to ask yourself the Funeral Questions: What do I want people to say about me at my funeral?; As what sort of person do I want to be remembered?; For what do I want to be remembered?You should form as concrete a mental picture of what you're about to do as possible: one which sets out exactly what should be achieved. You should visualize how you're going to aim your bow so that you hit the bullseye. This kind of visual anticipation works in all possible situations. Most competitive sportsmen, for example, are well-practiced in visualizing how they will leave the starting block, complete a perfect stretchand finish in first place. The same principle is true for an office. First you need a clear mental picture, which can then be translated into concrete actions.The greater the balance, the greater trust exists between the parties. To this end, you should aim to make regular payments and withdraw money only rarely from the account. A payment can be, for example, finding a win-win solution, sticking to a promise you made, or really listening empathetically to the other person. A withdrawal, on the other hand, would be finding a win-lose solution, breaking a promise, or only half-listening to the other person. Once you have reached the maximum balance in your account, you should aim to understand the needs and mission statement of the other person, and to invest also in these. That's why, in everyday life, it is vitally important to always keep promises, and to be courteous and sensitive even in small matters while, above all, remaining loyal. If it happens that you make a withdrawal from the account one time, you should apologize sincerely. People are more than happy to forgive a repentant sinner. Plucking up the courage to admit you were wrong is therefore always worthwhile.How much would we trust a doctor who very quickly gave a diagnosis without having really listened to us at all? How helpful would it be for an optician to merely hand us his own glasses, claiming that since he can see fine with them, they should work for us too? Though most of us might be critical of such behavior, we actually behave very similarly in everyday life, particularly in conversation with others. We don't really listen, and instead formulate our response extremely quickly. We tend to project ourselves onto the other person and look for solutions we can "prescribe" for them.A Viral Engine of growth works by getting existing customers to take care of the company's marketing. Awareness of the product spreads among your target customers by word-of-mouth. A famous example of a viral engine of growth is Hotmail's automatic email signature: "P.S. Get your free e-mail at Hotmail."To begin the process of validated learning, you must come up with hypotheses about whether and how certain products will be successful in a given market. For example, "US customers will be willing to purchase shoes online." Such fundamental hypotheses have to be tested, and only if they are validated by talking to customers can the start-up know it's on the right track toward finding a sustainable business model. The most reliable way to find out whether people will buy your product is to offer it to them and see how they respond.Take the success story of Zappos: it started with the simple hypothesis that people would be willing to buy shoes online. To test this idea, the company took photographs of shoes in shoe stores and displayed the photographs in a fake web shop. When people actually tried to buy the shoes online, Zappos saw that their hypothesis was valid. Through this approach, the foundation was laid for one of the most successful business models of the last decade.Take a look at Facebook: they managed to validate both the value and growth hypothesis at a very early stage when the social network had only a few users. First of all, the registered users were very active in the network. More than half logged in at least once a day - impressive proof for the value hypothesis. Second, Facebook had sensational user-activation rates, meaning it gained market penetration very quickly. In colleges where Facebook had been introduced, three quarters of all students signed up within one month - without the company having spent a penny on marketing. Thus, the growth hypothesis was proven as well. Such impressive data made investors strong believers in the future success of this new social network, leading them to invest millions at a very early stage.Take the founders of Dropbox. They knew that developing their idea into a product would take a lot of time, so they chose a simple and creative way to validate their hypothesis that there was demand for a new and user-friendly data-synchronising service: they created a video presenting their idea. The founders had assumed there was a demand for such a product, and they were right: within one night, 75,000 people had signed up to their waiting list, and the Dropbox team concluded they were on the right track. Thus, they could confidently start developing the actual product.A clever way of distinguishing between value and waste is split-testing. Whenever you consider adding a feature or changing an existing one, create two versions of your product: one with the new feature and one without it. By testing both versions, you'll soon see which one is more appealing to customers. The first companies that used this technique were mail-order businesses. For example, to find out whether a new catalogue layout would increase orders, they printed two versions of it: 50 percent of their customers got the old design, and 50 percent got a new one. The catalogues were identical in every other way and the customers were split randomly, so the companies simply had to compare how many orders were placed by each group. This data answered the question of whether the new design was an improvement or not.Many start-ups had to pivot a couple of times before finally becoming successful businesses. Take Groupon: they started as a platform for activism and fundraising, and only later turned into the daily deals platform they're known as today.Start-ups relying on vanity metrics are effectively looking into the business equivalent of a slimming mirror, which makes it hard to face actual problems and fix them. For instance, it may be flattering to get a lot of media attention and Facebook fans, but never make the mistake of interpreting these signs as success. They don't pay the bills, and you should not waste your energy trying to impact such meaningless metrics. Other vanity metrics could be the hours of work you've already put into a product or the number of milestones you've accomplished. These numbers can (but don't necessarily) have anything to do with the success of your start-up. Hence, the goal should never be to maximize them. Even if someone works 100-hour weeks, it's still possible that those hours are wasted on something that's useless from the point of view of long-term success.Ask people for their input, and help them feel comfortable giving it. At General Electric (GE), this was achieved by intermittently gathering groups of 30 to 100 employees together to discuss better ways of doing things, without their bosses present. This allowed the employees to talk anonymously and form proposals that their bosses were obliged to address - and quickly. These Work-Out sessions were so successful they became an integral part of GE's problem-solving process.To show you are trustworthy leader: be honest, give credit fairly, and never "steal" ideas for yourself or hog all the glory.To show your team that failure is acceptable as long as lessons are learned from it. Demonstrate this by taking risks yourself and openly discussing your mistakes. This will encourage your staff to boldly pursue opportunities.Good mission statements and values are so tangible you can almost hit someone in the face with them. An effective mission statement basically just answers the question "How do we intend to win in this business?" GE, for example, decided they would be number one or number two in every market they operated in, fixing or getting rid of every one of their businesses where this was not the case. This is an effective mission: specific, descriptive, ambitious.Values are clearly-defined behaviors you want your employees to exhibit. Some real-life examples from GE include instructions like "Be intolerant of bureaucracy" and "See change for the growth opportunity it brings."You must find and implement best practices from wherever you can. When GE wanted to improve its inventory turnover, it began visiting the factories of American Standard, a toilet bowl manufacturer that boasted excellent inventory turnover.GE no longer compares performance to budgets at all but rather to the prior year's performance and to that of competitors. Thus, even seemingly great results might not merit praise if the year has been easy and competitors have fared even better. Conversely, even if a division performed very poorly, it may be excused if its competitors did even worse.Starting something new in business, whether launching a new product or entering a new market, is very exciting; but for any new venture to succeed, you need to give it lots of love and special treatment. Put your smartest and most passionate people on the new business and grant them a lot of freedom and autonomy. Make a big hoopla about them, give them plenty of resources and act as their cheerleader every chance you have.Most people acknowledge that change is a critical part of any business, but they hate it nonetheless. When The Times of London changed to tabloid format, the editor got an email asking how it felt to be the person responsible for the fall of Western civilization.Mistakes, controversies and integrity violations are inevitable and often spin out of control into full-blown crises. For example, one of GE's sales managers was caught bribing a general in the Israeli Air Force, which embroiled GE in a huge scandal. Another time, GE was accused of defrauding the US government by filing inaccurate timecards at a plant that made missile cones. Navigate crises in such a way that your company emerges from them stronger than ever. Avoid as many crises as possible, and use rigorous processes and controls to evaluate your people carefully and impose strict financial discipline in your company. If someone breaks the rules, do not allow them to leave quietly due to "personal reasons." Instead, make an example of them and fire them publicly. When crises do happen, skip the denial phase. Immediately assume that the problem is probably far worse than it initially seems, that all your dirty secrets will come out, and that the media will portray everything in the worst possible light. And yes, probably blood will be spilt and people will be fired. Facing these facts helps you take ownership; you should expose and define the problem before anyone else does.People rarely know exactly what they want to do at the start of their career. For example, the CEO of Procter & Gamble, A.G. Lafley, originally wanted to be a professor of Renaissance history.Finding a great job makes your life much more rewarding and exciting. Consider the man Jack Welch once met on holiday who gushed with pride as he proclaimed he was the "first mercury-free dentist in Quechee, Vermont!" Only genuine excitement in what you do can produce such enthusiasm.Until 1949, it was assumed that human and animal behavior was controlled by inner drives and exterior motivations. Then professor of psychology Harry Harlowe made a discovery that disproved this theory: He gave eight Rhesus monkeys a mechanical puzzle. Since the primates would receive neither food nor praise if they solved the puzzle, he was convinced they would not concern themselves with it. However, the monkeys gave it a go, recognized how it worked, and, without any exterior incentives, solved it with great enjoyment. Such behavior is also typical for us humans.The development of the online encyclopedia Wikipedia, for example, is just as intriguing. Tens of thousands of people write and edit articles for Wikipedia voluntarily, out of pure enjoyment. They invest valuable working time in this endeavor and receive not even the lowest material reward in return. Although the growth of Wikipedia was dependent on voluntary writers, the project became an enormous success. In contrast, its rival product, Microsoft Encarta, whose development was in the hands of well-paid professional authors and editors, was closed down some years ago.In most garages, mechanics are promised a bonus if they carry out a certain number of repairs within a certain time frame. One would expect this external incentive to motivate them to provide results that satisfy their customers. Instead, the whole strategy often backfires: the mechanics' main goal is to achieve a target number of repairs and secure their reward, and so they are inclined to carry out unnecessary repairs, something which annoys their customers and damages the company as a result. The target, intended to promote efficient work, instead results in customers losing faith in the garage, despite the fact that the workers are delivering on target.The offer of the carrot can also be detrimental, as revealed by an agility test in India. Participants in an experiment were promised various sums of money for hitting targets with tennis balls. Those who were promised the most money performed, contrary to the general expectation, the worst. The financial incentives put a higher pressure on the participants, which not only failed to improve their performance but actually inhibited it.In another experiment, participants were asked to find a way to fasten a candle to a wall, a puzzle whose solution necessitated creative thinking. Here, too, some participants were promised money for solving the problem quickly. Instead of inspiring these participants to think creatively, the prospect of this reward clouded their thinking and blunted their resourcefulness. The incentive seemed to blinker them, impeding the wider vision necessary to solve the task, and resulting in notably longer completion times when compared to participants who were not promised a reward.Children often demonstrate great dedication in striving towards small goals: they romp about with great curiosity and sample everything possible in an attempt to understand the world. It is with great pleasure that they employ their hands, mouth, eyes and ears to learn about anything, whether observing butterflies or learning to stack cans. They are intrinsically motivated to a high degree. Over the years, however, they change: their urge to search for challenges and novelties lessens. Little by little, they cease to further their skills themselves.Intrinsic motivation is gradually lost as a person is confronted with a world in which everything relies on extrinsic motivation - as illustrated in a nursery experiment in which children were asked to produce a drawing. Some children were promised a certificate for completing their drawing, and the others were not. When both groups were set to drawing again (this time with neither group being promised a reward), the children who had previously received a certificate no longer wanted to draw, whereas those who hadn't received any special recognition did. The promised recognition had destroyed their intrinsic motivation: they had learned to draw only for a reward. Following this pattern, so-called if-then rewards gradually eradicate intrinsic motivation for many activities.Basketball players want to shoot more and more hoops, computer scientists want to create increasingly intelligent programs and photographers want to take better and better pictures. They all have the important component of Motivation 3.0 in common: the inner urge to achieve perfection. This allows them to improve in the area which is important to them, and to bring passion and commitment to the pursuit of their goal.If a superior gives her employees a task that encourages them to constantly improve, this can generate the flow experience in the employee, and they will come to work every day with a lot of dedication and passion.What moves people during the course of their lives and why do they act as they do? To answer this question, psychologists investigated the quest for meaning in the lives of young people. They asked graduates of the University of Rochester about their main aim in life. While some named extrinsic profit targets and wanted to become rich and famous, others specified more meaningful intrinsic goals: to develop personally and to help others, for example by working for international aid organizations. Some years later, the researchers interviewed the same participants to find out how things had turned out for them. The students with profit goals were no more contented, even having successfully achieved positions as managers in large firms. On the contrary, they suffered from depression and anxiety more frequently than the students who had stated meaningful goals. The latter reported to have achieved a greater happiness in life with their goals, and only rarely suffered from psychological ailments.To have a larger goal in mind is more motivating and activating than money could ever be. Instead of striving for the highest possible profit, people who pursue meaning in their lives want to give something back to society - which, in turn, also gives them personal strength. The results of further studies support this: the welfare of workers improves in companies where a proportion of the budget can be donated to charitable causes. And doctors are noticeably less drained if they are able to use one day per week to talk with their patients and do outreach service.For some years, there have been companies whose leadership rests on the self-determination of the workers: instead of monitoring their employees and keeping them on a tight rein, they have either relaxed control or completely let go of the reins. Google, for example, relies on individual self-organization of working time, and their employees can spend 20 percent of their time on developing their own innovative ideas. The success of this motivation strategy speaks for itself: in these phases, the workers of Google have developed hits such as Google News and Google Mail.The company Meddius also uses self-determination as a source of motivation for its workers: everyone's goal is simply to complete their tasks within a certain time frame - the management has done away with set office hours. The workers are now much more motivated, since in the afternoons they can still make it to their children's football games.Another example is Zappos. A typical call-center has an annual staff turnover of 35 percent, because making telephone calls for hours on end is not just boring but also stressful - it offers little room for self-determination and hence provides no intrinsic motivation. Zappos, however, does things differently: the employees are allowed to work from home with no managerial pressure, and can lead conversations in their own style. They are highly motivated, thus remaining with the company longer, and their customer service is also notably better than average.The team you work with also has a significant impact on your motivation: at Whole Foods, the workers, as well as the personnel managers, decide on new employees; and at W.L Gore & Partner, those who want to lead a team have to find people willing to work under them themselves.Take, for example, Soichiro Honda, founder of the Honda corporation. As a schoolboy, he decided that he wanted to create effective piston rings for automobiles. History shows that he succeeded in that goal, yet on the path to success he encountered many problems that could've stopped him in his tracks. For example, during World War II, the Japanese government wouldn't provide Honda with the concrete he needed to build the factories to manufacture his product. Honda's solution was to invent his own way of making concrete, thus enabling himself to begin building his empire.Smokers are rarely successful on their first attempts to quit. But if they use that failure as an opportunity to reflect on the obstacles to quitting (for example, the temptation to smoke is too strong around other smokers), and how they might overcome them in the future (stay away from places where smokers reside), then they can accomplish their goal.Let's say you want to stop eating chocolate. One way to accomplish that goal would be to connect eating chocolate to mental anguish. You could, for instance, decide on a rule that whenever you eat chocolate you have to sing a song that you loathe. Soon your brain will associate the act of eating chocolate with the uncomfortable feeling you have while singing that song. But remember: you need to commit to your decision, so you'll have to sing out loud even when you eat chocolate cake at a dinner party!However, to ensure that you change your behavior over the long term, it's crucial that you find a new, more desirable habit that gives you an equal amount of pleasure to the old one. So, to successfully cut chocolate out of your diet, you must create an alternative habit that you'll enjoy as much as feasting on that Snickers bar. This could be a healthier treat, such as your favorite fruit, or an activity, like a new sport. You'll also benefit from imagining the great things that are in store for you once you break the habit. For example, by giving up chocolate, you'll soon be able to fit into your old jeans again.In one study on the effectiveness of replacing unhealthy behaviors with healthier ones, researchers examined the rehabilitation of drug addicts. They found that those addicts who found an alternative, healthier habit that could bring them equal pleasure - such as entering a new relationship, or starting a hobby - were far less likely to revert.To think differently about a situation, you need to describe it differently. Imagine you're on a road trip and your car breaks down in the middle of nowhere. In this situation, you could allow yourself to become furious and complain about how "annoying" it is and how "angry" you feel. But you could also say something like, "that's inconvenient." Describing what we usually experience as a frustrating situation in more neutral words can stop you from entering a more negative emotional state. The secret is to use strong words for positive emotions and less intense words for negative ones. For example, instead of saying that you're "happy," you could use the stronger description, "totally blissed." Or, if you're on the verge of experiencing intense negative emotions, you should describe your experience with words and phrases that are less intense, such as "I'm a little concerned" instead of "I'm extremely anxious."Try to use unusual words to express negative emotions. Doing this is likely to amuse you, and will instantly lift your mood - even delighting those around you. For example, when you're extremely annoyed, you could say: "I must say, I feel quite peeved." This uncommon word has an old-fashioned, genteel quality to it that can instantly improve your mood.If you repeatedly find yourself in an unpleasant situation, asking yourself, "why does this always happen to me?" will instantly focus your thoughts on your life's failures. The result? Your mood will sink, and your experience of life will be framed by this negativity. Therefore, it's crucial that whenever you face a problem, you ask yourself the right questions. Come up with a list of questions beforehand. Make it a habit to ask questions like: "What's good about this situation?" and "what can I do to enjoy the process of solving this problem?" Asking such questions while in the thick of an ordeal will lift your mood and enable you to arrive at an effective solution for it, or at least to cope better with the consequences.If you truly want to create a general positive attitude towards life, you could take this training even further and every morning ask yourself questions that empower you. For example, you could ask "what's great about my life?" or "what accomplishments am I proud of?" By getting yourself in a great mood at the start of each day, you'll gradually find it easier to access that positive state during the day as well, resulting in a better, more successful life.Because many of our rules are dependent on other people's actions, we're likely to get frustrated or upset when those people act in a way that doesn't fit with our rules. In fact, if you're upset with someone, that's because that person is unconsciously challenging your rules. Let's say that the person you consider to be your closest friend never calls you. Because you believe that close friends should call each other regularly, you feel she's no longer your friend. However, she might think differently about friendship - for instance, that it's more about being there for the other person in moments of crisis, and not about calling each other on the phone every week. But, by communicating your rules concerning friendship, your friend will understand why you were upset with her, and, on that basis, the two of you can establish a more solid foundation for your relationship.While most people believe they're not influential enough to bring about such widespread change, and therefore don't even try to do so, the truth is that the decisions which are the key to changing your own life are also the key to transforming society. For example, what might seem like a trivial life decision: choosing what to eat for dinner. Let's say you've decided, for personal health reasons, to cut beef out of your diet. Although it may seem that this change will benefit only yourself, the fact is that stopping eating beef could make a difference on a much larger scale. For instance, to produce 250 pounds of beef requires as many acres of land as that needed to grow 40,000 pounds of potatoes. In other words, we could get greater use out of the land we currently use for raising cattle, thus greatly diminishing the problem of widespread hunger. Your decision to cut out beef contributes to a reduction in the demand for that product, and thus towards the possibility of using that land for better purposes.Imagine you're at the grocery store and you notice a fellow shopper who appears sad. Instead of minding your own business, you could pay him a genuine compliment. Perhaps you could tell him that you admire him for choosing to buy free range eggs. And perhaps if you go through the world smiling at the people you meet, there's a chance that you'll lift their mood, which they can then share with others as well!When Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer at Facebook, was suddenly widowed at age 45, she had two small children in elementary school. The shock of losing her partner at such a young age coupled with the reality of raising her kids on her own sent her into a spiral of shock and grief. During this period, she found solace in the support of a friend, who gave her evidence-based studies about resilience, mourning and joy. During a weak moment, she cried out to her friend that she wanted her husband, Dave. Her friend said that that option - Option A - was no longer available. These blinks are about facing the realities of loss, building resilience and making the most of Option B.Author, Sheryl Sandberg, went through Personalisation (blaming oneself for a tragedy) when her husband died during a vacation in Mexico. Since the initial medical report listed the cause of death as head trauma caused by a fall from an exercise machine, Sheryl blamed herself for not keeping a closer eye on her husband. But Sheryl's brother happens to be a neurosurgeon and was sure that the initial report was wrong; he tried to convince Sheryl that a fall from such a small height couldn't be fatal. Sure enough, the second autopsy proved him right; Sheryl's husband died from cardiac arrhythmia due to a non-diagnosed coronary artery disease. But this was just another thing Sheryl could personalize, and she began to ask herself, "Why didn't I try harder to change his diet or get him to see his doctor more often?" Again, those around her, including her doctors, tried to assure her that it wasn't her fault and that no single lifestyle change would have saved him.Being Jewish, the Sandbergs held Shiva, a seven-day period of mourning. Afterward, her children went back to school, and Sheryl tried to return to work. But the pain of her husband's death felt all-consuming. Sheryl couldn't get through a meeting at work without holding back tears and being on the verge of breaking down.Being resilient is about understanding that pain is a part of life and that suffering and loss aren't things that can be avoided. It's also important that we recognize and appreciate the good along with the bad. One way to do this, and to help get through those tough times, is to keep a daily record of your emotional state. Sheryl Sandberg kept her journal by her bed, and every night she wrote down three moments of happiness from her day, which was enough to alleviate her emotional state. She also began to keep a note of her accomplishments - even the smallest ones, like getting to work on time, doing the laundry or just making a good cup of coffee. While it might seem meaningless, recognizing events like these will help shift your attention away from the negative and remind you that positive experiences are still possible, even when you're grieving.It's also important to recognize that it's possible to feel happiness and a profound sense of purpose in times of great despair. For instance, Sheryl Sandberg has a friend named Virginia, whose 53-year-old husband died suddenly in his sleep. A few years later, her son died of a heroin overdose on the night before her daughter's wedding. Some might be paralyzed with grief after events like these, but Virginia felt it was important to go ahead with the wedding, even when she had to plan her son's funeral the following day. She also found meaning in her son's death and recognized the good that could come of it, as she began working in local drug prevention programs and advocating for better legislation. Virginia believes that it's important to find joy in times of grief and she takes responsibility for making this happen. You can find your joy by taking on new hobbies and activities, such as exercising, making art or playing an instrument, like the piano - which Sheryl found great joy in returning to.The famous story of the Uruguayan soccer team that crashed in the Andes mountains in 1972 is a remarkable example of resilience as 16 of the 33 crash survivors were able to endure deadly freezing conditions. Resilience isn't just found  within individuals, but also among individuals who can gain strength together. Over an agonizing 72 days, the survivors faced starvation, avalanches, frostbite and having to eat the frozen flesh of their dead teammates and loved ones in order to survive. What's even more shocking is that they managed to keep hope alive even when they heard through their broken radio - which could receive, but not send, messages - that their search party had been called off. One way of generating hope was through sharing their dreams for what they'd do once they got back to civilization, such as starting a restaurant or a farm and spending time with their loved ones.But hope needs to be combined with what psychologists call grounded hope, which happens when action is taken to make things better in the immediate future. The survivors did this by sending teams to find supplies and locate shelter, which resulted in a series of small but gradual improvements. First, they found the tail-end of the crashed plane, which provided a roof of sorts and insulation that could be turned into sleeping bags. This, in turn, kept them warm at night and allowed them to go on longer expeditions, eventually hiking 30 treacherous miles over ten days to find a local man on horseback, resulting in their rescue.After her husband's death, Sheryl Sandberg went to her friend's house for dinner, and her hosts spent the entire time making small talk about sports and the weather. This wasn't unusual: everywhere she went, whether it was a speaking event or running into friends at the park, people would avoid acknowledging her loss. But it didn't help; it just made her feel invisible, as if people couldn't see her or recognize her suffering. if you have a friend who's grieving, you'll find that making a small gesture to acknowledge their pain can make a big difference.Sheryl was especially hurt by people who would ask her, "Hey, how's it going?" Because she knew they just expected her to respond with the usual, "Good thanks, how are you?" The simplest way to make a difference is to ask, "How are you today?" This acknowledges that the person is still going through a difficult period and that some days are better than others. This is a simple, kind way to express empathy. When Sheryl heard this small difference in the question, it helped her to open up, be honest and process the grief. She was also happy on the occasions when someone offered her one of the best signs of compassion: a hug.If you really want to help someone who's grieving, acknowledging their situation is a great first step, but there are other simple steps to take. One of the best is to let them know that you're there to help. In a way, this is like offering someone a panic button, which has been proven to reduce anxiety. In 1971, there was a classic experiment on urban stress by social psychologists David C. Glass and Jerome Singer. They asked participants to solve puzzles and perform focused tasks while frequently bombarding them with loud noises and music. As a result, many signs of stress, such as high blood pressure and heart rate were recorded. However, some participants were given a panic button that they could press at any time to stop the noise. Surprisingly, none of the participants actually used the button, but those who had the option stayed calmer and made fewer mistakes. It proved that we don't need silence to be calm and endure stress, but rather, the knowledge that help is within our reach.The co-author, Adam Grant, knew a student who had committed suicide. So he now begins the first class of each of his courses by writing his phone number on the board and letting his students know that they can call him if things become too difficult. It's his way of providing a panic button.
