What’s in it for me? Find out how to take control of your life and live up to your potential.Do you want to change your life but find it hard to commit to your decisions? As you go through life, do you tend to believe that the cards are somehow stacked against you?
In Awaken The Giant Within, you’ll learn just how important decisions and beliefs are to bringing about positive change and becoming the person you want to be. With characteristic insight and clarity, motivational speaker Anthony Robbins demonstrates the control that each of us holds over our experience of the world, and therefore over our happiness.
In the following blinks you will

find out why singing can help you quit eating chocolate;
learn that the words you use to describe your situation can define your attitude toward life; and
discover that you have the power to change society, simply by making the right dinner choice.
To change your life, focus on making and committing to the right decisions.When was the last time you thought about changing your life?
Perhaps it was New Year's Eve and you resolved to quit smoking. Or maybe you wanted to lose weight and seriously considered going on a new diet.
But did you actually manage to bring about those changes to your life?
If you didn’t, the problem was likely in how you framed your desire to change: “I’d like to stop eating junk food” instead of “I will start eating more healthily.”
To change anything about your life, you first have to make a clear decision. Then, no matter what challenges you may face, you have to stick to that decision.
This necessitates that you must be willing to adapt your approach as you meet obstacles.
 <story> Take, for example, Soichiro Honda, founder of the Honda corporation. As a schoolboy, he decided that he wanted to create effective piston rings for automobiles. History shows that he succeeded in that goal, yet on the path to success he encountered many problems that could’ve stopped him in his tracks.
For example, during World War II, the Japanese government wouldn’t provide Honda with the concrete he needed to build the factories to manufacture his product.
How did he overcome that obstacle?
Honda’s solution was to invent his own way of making concrete, thus enabling himself to begin building his empire. </story> 
And while committing to major decisions may be challenging, the more you do it, the easier it becomes. So, when you inevitably fail as you try to enact a change in your life, don’t be discouraged. Instead, think about what you could learn from the failure.
For example,  <story> Smokers are rarely successful on their first attempts to quit. But if they use that failure as an opportunity to reflect on the obstacles to quitting (for example, the temptation to smoke is too strong around other smokers), and how they might overcome them in the future (stay away from places where smokers reside), then they can accomplish their goal. </story> Make new habits by associating unwanted ones with pain and desired ones with pleasure.We’ve seen that to accomplish our goals and bring about change we must fully commit to our decisions. But even with the best of intentions, changing our established behavior can sometimes be extremely difficult.
Why? Because everything we do is in the service of either getting pleasure or avoiding pain.
Once you make yourself aware of this dynamic, you can begin to use it to your advantage. So, if you want to break a particular habit, an effective method for doing so is to associate that behavior with pain.
 <story> Let’s say you want to stop eating chocolate. One way to accomplish that goal would be to connect eating chocolate to mental anguish.
You could, for instance, decide on a rule that whenever you eat chocolate you have to sing a song that you loathe. Soon your brain will associate the act of eating chocolate with the uncomfortable feeling you have while singing that song. But remember: you need to commit to your decision, so you’ll have to sing out loud even when you eat chocolate cake at a dinner party! </story> 
 <story> However, to ensure that you change your behavior over the long term, it’s crucial that you find a new, more desirable habit that gives you an equal amount of pleasure to the old one.
So, to successfully cut chocolate out of your diet, you must create an alternative habit that you’ll enjoy as much as feasting on that Snickers bar. This could be a healthier treat, such as your favorite fruit, or an activity, like a new sport. You’ll also benefit from imagining the great things that are in store for you once you break the habit. For example, by giving up chocolate, you’ll soon be able to fit into your old jeans again. </story> 
This technique has a proven track record for helping people break even quite extreme habits.  <story> In one study on the effectiveness of replacing unhealthy behaviors with healthier ones, researchers examined the rehabilitation of drug addicts. They found that those addicts who found an alternative, healthier habit that could bring them equal pleasure – such as entering a new relationship, or starting a hobby – were far less likely to revert. </story> To change who you are, change your beliefs.Imagine two people that just turned 60. One of them might think his life is coming to an end, now that his best years are gone. The other, however, might be truly thrilled for everything that’s still in store for her.
What could account for such a striking difference in outlook?
The way that we see the world and ourselves is shaped by our beliefs.
But what exactly is a belief?
A belief is an idea that’s supported by evidence. You might, for example, have the idea that you’re an excellent chess player. But that idea will become a belief only if it’s supported by certain evidence, for example, you win the majority of the time.
For most of us, any events in our lives can act as a reference and inform our beliefs. Unfortunately, this also means that whenever something awful happens – for example, you lose a loved one – many people use it as support for their belief that life is terrible.
But we don’t have to think that way: if we manage to interpret the reference more positively, we can direct our lives in a more optimistic way. So, if you’re grieving, you could use that experience as a resource to make you stronger as a person. Perhaps you’ll even emerge from the grieving period with a strong desire to help others in mourning.
As this suggests, to bring about a change in your life, you must first change your beliefs.
The problem, however, is that many of us tend to already have strong beliefs that hold us back from changing anything.
Habitual beliefs, like all habits, can be broken. As with any other habit, to change an existing belief, you need to associate pain with the old one and pleasure with the new.
An easy way to accomplish that is to find a role model who has already been successful in changing her beliefs, and adapt her way of doing it to your own purposes.Changing your vocabulary can transform your attitudes and emotions.Did you know that in the English language there are approximately 3000 words that describe emotions?
Surprisingly, however, there are nearly twice as many words for negative emotions as for positive ones – which could be a reason why many people tend to experience negative emotions more frequently.
It’s therefore crucial that you pay close attention to the words you use in your daily life, as they will shape your thinking and perception.
 <story> To think differently about a situation, you need to describe it differently.
Imagine you’re on a road trip and your car breaks down in the middle of nowhere. In this situation, you could allow yourself to become furious and complain about how “annoying” it is and how “angry” you feel. But you could also say something like, “that’s inconvenient.” Describing what we usually experience as a frustrating situation in more neutral words can stop you from entering a more negative emotional state.
This example gets to the heart of what the author calls Transformational Vocabulary: the words we employ to describe our experience of the world actually define that experience.
So how can you change your vocabulary in a way that helps you to manage your emotions?
The secret is to use strong words for positive emotions and less intense words for negative ones. For example, instead of saying that you’re “happy,” you could use the stronger description, “totally blissed.” Or, if you’re on the verge of experiencing intense negative emotions, you should describe your experience with words and phrases that are less intense, such as “I’m a little concerned” instead of “I’m extremely anxious.” </story> 
A final tip:  <story> Try to use unusual words to express negative emotions. Doing this is likely to amuse you, and will instantly lift your mood – even delighting those around you. For example, when you’re extremely annoyed, you could say: “I must say, I feel quite peeved.” This uncommon word has an old-fashioned, genteel quality to it that can instantly improve your mood. </story> To find the best solution to any problem, ask the right questions.As you’ve learned, changing your life requires changing the way you think. In this blink we’ll venture a little deeper to ask, what exactly is thinking?
In basic terms, our thoughts are a series of questions and answers. Thus, the questions we ask determine the way that we think, which means that those questions are essential to our experience of life.
It follows, then, that the quality of our questions has a massive impact on the quality of our lives. Every time you ask a question, its quality will determine the focus of your thoughts. If you ask a negative question, you'll get a negative answer; ask a positive question, and you’ll get a positive answer.
For example,  <story> If you repeatedly find yourself in an unpleasant situation, asking yourself, “why does this always happen to me?” will instantly focus your thoughts on your life’s failures. The result? Your mood will sink, and your experience of life will be framed by this negativity.
Therefore, it’s crucial that whenever you face a problem, you ask yourself the right questions.
This is easier said than done. We tend to feel overwhelmed in difficult situations, so we often ask the wrong questions, for example, “why me?,” and then get discouraged by the answers.
The solution is to come up with a list of questions beforehand. Make it a habit to ask questions like: “What’s good about this situation?” and “what can I do to enjoy the process of solving this problem?”
Asking such questions while in the thick of an ordeal will lift your mood and enable you to arrive at an effective solution for it, or at least to cope better with the consequences. </story> 
 <story> If you truly want to create a general positive attitude towards life, you could take this training even further and every morning ask yourself questions that empower you. For example, you could ask “what’s great about my life?” or “what accomplishments am I proud of?”
By getting yourself in a great mood at the start of each day, you’ll gradually find it easier to access that positive state during the day as well, resulting in a better, more successful life. </story> Discover your own life values to find out if you’re living up to your full potential.Can you say with certainty what you believe is most important to your life? Is it love? Your health?
If you’re not sure, you should endeavor to find out, as the most successful, happiest people are those who understand their own values and live their lives accordingly.
So if you don’t feel fulfilled in your life but don’t know exactly why that is, it could be that you’re not living in accordance with your beliefs.
Imagine you’re offered an exciting new job in a different country. Accepting that offer means you’ll have to uproot your life and move your family thousands of miles. Would you be willing?
If you can’t decide, the reason is that you’re uncertain of your values. In this particular case, to make a decision that will bring you happiness you first need to find out whether personal growth is more important to you than financial security.
Make time to reflect on and list your most important values in order of priority, and elaborate on your reasons for including those values. In making this list, you might notice that some of the values you currently hold are not well-suited to accomplishing your goals.
Perhaps your ultimate value in life is passion – everything you do, you want to do it with a lot of passion. But, as you reflect on the alignment of your values and goals, you might realize that approaching everything with passion causes your health to suffer. This is an unsuitable value, because if you’re unwell, you won’t be able to approach anything with passion.
The solution here is to change your values. You could decide that, from now on, you should prioritize your health over your passion. By putting health first you will be able to be passionate without the drawbacks.Come up with life rules that make you happy, and tell others about them.All of us have rules we follow in our lives. These rules, like, “I’ll be happy once I get to eat that Snickers,” play a large part in determining both our actions and how we feel because they decide what will and won’t make us happy.
However, such rules can actually limit our experience, and thus the odds of us achieving true happiness.
Think about yourself for a moment: What do you need to happen for you to be happy? Do you need to win the lottery? Do you want your friends to appreciate you more?
While you may be correct that such things will bring you happiness, those things are beyond your control. Therefore, it’s important to establish life rules that you can control.
For example, instead of the rule “I’ll feel great only if someone congratulates me on my work,” try employing a rule that makes your happiness dependent on accomplishing personal goals.
 <story> Because many of our rules are dependent on other people’s actions, we’re likely to get frustrated or upset when those people act in a way that doesn’t fit with our rules. In fact, if you’re upset with someone, that’s because that person is unconsciously challenging your rules.
But you cannot expect your personal rules to be the same as other people’s. So, if you want a happy existence, it’s crucial that you communicate your rules and ensure that others know what’s important to you.
Let’s say that the person you consider to be your closest friend never calls you. Because you believe that close friends should call each other regularly, you feel she’s no longer your friend.
However, she might think differently about friendship – for instance, that it’s more about being there for the other person in moments of crisis, and not about calling each other on the phone every week.
But, by communicating your rules concerning friendship, your friend will understand why you were upset with her, and, on that basis, the two of you can establish a more solid foundation for your relationship. </story> By understanding what’s behind your emotions, you can gain control over them.We’ve seen that by being less stringent about your own rules, you can decide what will make you happy. But it’s not just happiness you can gain mastery over; you can, in fact, choose your entire range of emotions.
But in order to gain that control, we need to first identify our true emotions.
We tend to get easily overwhelmed by our negative emotions, usually because we generalize them or fail to identify them correctly. For instance, you might be feeling angry about something, but, if you reflect on the true cause of your emotional pain, you might realize there’s something else behind that anger, maybe exhaustion.
As soon as you’ve identified this cause, you can use Transformational Vocabulary (influencing your emotions by describing them differently) and express your exhaustion by saying “I’m feeling a little droopy.” This will diminish any negativity you feel, and make the emotion easier to overcome.
It’s also important to ensure that you don’t view your more difficult emotions in a negative way. All emotions can help you to enact positive change in your life, as they indicate that something’s not quite right, prompting you to examine them to find the true cause of your difficulties. Only by identifying that cause can you begin to change.
But understanding the cause of a particular emotion is just the first step. The next step is a bigger challenge: you have to take action to deal with the emotion and change whatever it is that’s causing it.
So, if you successfully identified the cause of your unhappy emotion as loneliness, you can begin to search for the reasons that you’re lonely. For instance, it may be that you haven’t reached out to any of your friends lately. If that’s the case, the solution is clear: take action and call them.
Sometimes, though, you’ll feel that you simply cannot deal with a particular emotion. When that happens, try to recall a time when you dealt successfully with it. Doing this will give you confidence in your ability to handle difficult feelings, because if you’ve managed to deal with it once, you can certainly do it again.Contribute to society to discover what you can accomplish as an individual.In the previous blinks, we discussed how to take control of your life, achieve success and find happiness. At this point, however, you may be thinking that no matter the change you can make in your individual life, you’re never going to have the power to change anything in society.
Fortunately, that’s not the case. Even the smallest decisions you make in your own life can have a major social influence.
 <story> While most people believe they’re not influential enough to bring about such widespread change, and therefore don’t even try to do so, the truth is that the decisions which are the key to changing your own life are also the key to transforming society.
Take, for example, what might seem like a trivial life decision: choosing what to eat for dinner. Let’s say you’ve decided, for personal health reasons, to cut beef out of your diet.
Although it may seem that this change will benefit only yourself, the fact is that stopping eating beef could make a difference on a much larger scale.
For instance, to produce 250 pounds of beef requires as many acres of land as that needed to grow 40,000 pounds of potatoes. In other words, we could get greater use out of the land we currently use for raising cattle, thus greatly diminishing the problem of widespread hunger.
Your decision to cut out beef contributes to a reduction in the demand for that product, and thus towards the possibility of using that land for better purposes. </story> 
There’s another way you can bring about positive social change. Now that you’ve learned how to control and reflect on your own emotions, you could start helping others with theirs.
 <story> Imagine you’re at the grocery store and you notice a fellow shopper who appears sad. Instead of minding your own business, you could pay him a genuine compliment. Perhaps you could tell him that you admire him for choosing to buy free range eggs.
And perhaps if you go through the world smiling at the people you meet, there’s a chance that you’ll lift their mood, which they can then share with others as well! </story> Final summaryThe key message in this book:
Even small decisions and changes in your behavior can have a huge influence on how you live your own life, and on society in general.
Suggested further reading: Think and Grow Rich by Napoleon Hill
As a young man, Napoleon Hill was asked by industry magnate Andrew Carnegie to investigate the methods of the 500 most successful people of his time, including the world’s richest men, top politicians, famous inventors, writers and captains of industry. Think and Grow Rich details what he found.What’s in it for me? Follow the making of a legendary investor.Besides Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg, Warren Buffett is probably one of the best-known billionaires in the world. With his low-key profile and homegrown style – he does his own taxes and wears slightly shabby suits – the “Sage of Omaha” is a beloved man, even among those who tend to have little sympathy for the super wealthy.
So who is Warren Buffett?
That’s what you’ll learn in these blinks. We follow Buffett from growing up in Omaha, through his early days in trading, to his years as the richest man in the world. And we get a glimpse of the unique investment sense he showed throughout his business life.
In these blinks, you’ll find out

that Buffett made his first stock trade as a child;
what investment philosophy has influenced all of Buffett’s investments; and
why Berkshire Hathaway is the company most associated with Buffett.
Warren Buffett grew up in the Midwestern city of Omaha, Nebraska. Money was often on his mind.Warren Edward Buffett was born to Howard and Leila Buffett on August 30, 1930, at a time when many families were facing an uncertain future.
 <story> As a child of the Great Depression, young Warren learned the value of money.
In 1932, when the Depression hit Warren’s hometown of Omaha, Nebraska, his father lost his job as a securities salesman for a local bank. But his dad was resourceful and soon began his own company, selling safe and reliable stocks and bonds.
Earnings were meager. Indeed, they could afford so little food that Warren’s mother would often give her portion to Howard so that he would have a decent meal.
These difficult times left a lasting impression on Warren Buffett, and fueled his desire for the kind of security and stability that money can buy. </story>  Even though his father’s business became successful when Warren was six, he never forgot those early Depression years.
It wasn’t long before Warren’s interest in investment and entrepreneurship revealed itself.
 <story> He always looked forward to visiting his father’s office, and, when Warren was ten, Howard took him on an exciting business trip to New York, where they visited the Stock Exchange.
A year later, when he was eleven, Warren made his first profit by buying and selling stocks along with his sister, Doris.
To afford these stocks, Warren had undertaken many entrepreneurial activities, such as roaming the local golf course to collect lost golf balls and then selling them back to the owner. </story> 
 <story> At the age of 14, Warren was in charge of five separate paper routes, which had him getting up early every morning, delivering papers and collecting subscription fees.
By saving every cent he made, Warren purchased 40 acres of land for $1,200. He wasn’t yet fifteen. </story> 
Warren was no slouch at school, either. He graduated in the top three percent and enrolled at the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce, in Pennsylvania, where his love of money would only grow.At Columbia Business School, Buffett met his mentor and began his investment career. <story> With straight A’s as an undergrad, Buffett was surprised when his application for postgraduate studies was rejected by the Harvard Business School. But this rejection might have been for the best, since his professor at Columbia Business School (which accepted him) would have a massive impact on his life.
That professor was economist Benjamin Graham, a pioneer in stock-market analysis with a unique approach to finding the right investments.
The cornerstone of Graham’s philosophy was to avoid dealing with risky stocks altogether. He did this by determining a company’s intrinsic value and comparing it against the market value, which is the current price the stocks are being sold at.
Finding a company’s intrinsic value requires diligent research. One has to add up all of its assets, including its revenue streams and future prospects. But it’s worth the work.
When the intrinsic value is greater than the market value, you know you have a safe bet, and it’s only a matter of time before the price of that undervalued stock will rise to meet the market value. With this buying strategy, Graham became a legend for purchasing low-risk stocks and netting a high profit.
Buffett loved Graham’s philosophy, which became the guiding force in his own practice. During and after Buffett’s time at Columbia, his relationship with Graham flourished.
In Graham’s 22 years of teaching, he’d never had an A+ student. Buffett was his first. After earning his graduate degree, Buffett was eventually hired to work for Ben Graham’s Wall Street investment firm, Graham-Newman Corp. </story> 
Some of his early proposals were turned down as they were considered too risky, but, in the end, Buffett became a star employee.
 <story> One of his more memorable deals involved a chocolate company and realizing a way for everyone to benefit when the price of cocoa suddenly skyrocketed in 1954. A local New York chocolate maker was looking to Graham-Newman for help and Buffett saw that they could liquidate millions of pounds of cocoa and sell the beans to stockholders in their company. Based on the price of cocoa “futures,” this netted the company, and Buffett, a nice reward with every transaction. </story> At the age of 26, Buffett returned to Nebraska and started his own business.Buffet was never in love with the hustle and bustle of New York City. Furthermore, he was now a father, and he wanted to raise his kids in the peaceful environment of Omaha.
Once he returned to his hometown, Buffett began forming his own investment partnership, Buffett Associates, Ltd.
Within a year, he’d raised $500,000 from friends and family, all of which he put to work by flawlessly applying Graham’s theories and investing in undervalued companies that steadily paid off.
In that first year, he was so successful that his initial $500,000 portfolio increased in value by 10 percent. By the end of the third year, that value had actually doubled! Remarkably, all the while, this youngster in Nebraska was outperforming the Dow-Jones Industrial Average.
 <story> Finally, in 1961, Buffett took the next big step and purchased controlling interest in a company.
It was the largest investment he’d made so far – a full million dollars of his partnership’s money, which he put into Dempster Mill Manufacturing, a struggling windmill company that most other investors wouldn’t go near.
But Buffett knew it had solid intrinsic value, and his investment had made him chairman of the board for the company. He went to work sorting out their troubled finances.
A year later, the company was on the path to profit, with $2 million worth of stock being traded at twice the price of what Buffett had initially paid.
By 1963, that price was at three times its initial value and it was time for Buffett to move on, so he sold the company and earned his partners a $2.3 million profit. </story> 
Incredibly, at just 35 years of age, Buffett’s 1965 portfolio had grown to be worth $22 million, and his own net worth was at nearly $4 million.Buffett became involved with his now-famous company, Berkshire Hathaway, in 1962.In 1964, Buffett purchased controlling interest in Berkshire Hathaway, the company he is most closely associated with today.
 <story> Berkshire Hathaway had started out as a textile manufacturer in 1839. But, in the early 1960s, American textile companies were losing a lot of business to the cheaper manufacturing markets in Asia and Latin America. So when Buffett began buying its stock in 1962, it was selling at only $7.60 per share. The company was in dire straits.
However, when Buffett did his homework to add up its intrinsic value, he saw that the company should be trading at $16.50 per share. This made Berkshire Hathaway an amazing bargain that he couldn’t pass up, so he bought every stock he could get his hands on and, eventually, became the majority shareholder.
Though it would always struggle as a textile company, it succeeded as a holding company for Buffett’s more successful companies – such as the insurance company National Indemnity Co., which he purchased in 1967 for $8.6 million.
So even though textiles only earned Berkshire around $45,000 in profit per year, its holdings of National Indemnity stock earned it about $2.1 million. </story> 
By 1969, Berkshire had become the main focus of his time and energy, and so he decided to dissolve the original Omaha partnership which, over the last 13 years, had increased exponentially in value – from half a million to $104 million.
As chairman of the board at Berkshire Hathaway, Buffett continued to add new companies to its holding and, as a result, the price of Berkshire’s own shares went through the roof – increasing from $7.60 per share in 1962 to $95 per share in 1976!
At this point Buffett was making quite a name for himself, and he was able to do something he always wanted to do – own a newspaper.
In the 1970s, Berkshire became the largest outside shareholder of the Washington Post, the very newspaper Buffett had dropped on people’s doorsteps as a child.
During this time, Buffett continued to pay himself his standard yearly salary of $50,000.Buffett’s wealth increased dramatically during the 1980s.In 1979, Buffett was still far outperforming the Dow-Jones Industrial Average; his own net worth was $140 million, and Berkshire was selling at $290 per share.
 <story> As the country and the economy moved into the 1980s, Buffett’s investment philosophy began to move in a new direction, too.
By the time the 1980s arrived, his longtime mentor Ben Graham had died and Buffett was no longer focusing on small, undervalued companies. He was buying big, recognizable businesses like the Washington Post and the insurance company GEICO.
But though he’d outgrown Graham’s method, he still used it in principle. Rather than relying on a company’s financial assets to measure its intrinsic value, he now expanded his view to include its entire brand. </story> 
His ability to make major investments, combined with the aggressive market of the 1980s, propelled Buffet to new levels of wealth.
 <story> In 1980, the newly elected president Ronald Reagan made a pledge to turn the struggling economy around. To help with this, Reagan cut interest rates, which the influential economist Henry Kaufman predicted would only continue to decrease. This new environment sent people into a buying spree.
With low interest rates, stocks become more attractive to buyers, and the Dow jumped 38.81 points, setting a new record high.
Though none of this changed Buffett’s own patient and methodical investment philosophy, Berkshire Hathaway continued to reap the rewards.
The Dow was going through the roof, and Berkshire’s stock rose right along with it. By the end of 1983, its shares were selling at $1,310 dollars. Berkshire Hathaway’s holdings were now worth $1.3 billion.
As for Buffett himself, over the course of four years in the 1980s, his net worth went from $140 million to $620 million. And in 1985, with the markets continuing to boom, Buffett finally made the Forbes magazine annual list of billionaires. </story> Despite his immense wealth, Buffett isn’t a stereotypical Wall Street billionaire.Throughout his life, Buffett has comfortably stayed in the modest house that he purchased for $31,500 when he was 27 years old. But that’s just the beginning of the many ways Buffett defies the billionaire stereotype.
To begin with,  <story> Buffett has never liked the idea of America having an elite class.
Even in the early 1960s, when segregation was still widespread, Buffett defied many of his peers when he boycotted the local Rotary Club over its refusal to accept non-white members.
This also led to his becoming a Democrat, even though his father had been a lifelong Republican who spent eight years as a congressman in Washington. But after his father’s death, Buffett began making frequent donations to Democratic political campaigns.
And unlike many wealthy citizens, Buffett has spoken out against tax cuts for the rich – or, as he calls it, “welfare for the rich” – despite the fact that such tax cuts would benefit his own finances. </story> 
 <story> Since his late 20s, Buffett has struggled to figure out what to do with his riches, since he doesn’t live a glamorous lifestyle with expensive cars, homes or clothing.
Nor does he want his children to rely on his success. Instead, he has always taught them to forge their own paths in life and earn their own livings.
So, in 2006, after his wife Susan passed away, he finally decided that he would donate most of it to charity.
One sixth of his fortune has been divided among different Buffett family foundations, and the rest will be allocated over time to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which helps fight disease in developing nations. </story> 
As of 2015, his net worth was $64 billion, which makes his commitment to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation one of history’s greatest charitable donations – a legacy he can surely be proud of.Final summaryThe key message in this book:
With the help of his mentor, Benjamin Graham, Warren Buffett learned the important difference between how much a company is really worth and how much it’s selling for. An aptitude for discerning this difference, combined with a steadfast refusal to succumb to trends and a keen understanding of numbers, is what allowed Buffett to accrue a fortune exceeding $66 billion.
Got feedback?
We’d sure love to hear what you think about our content! Just drop an email to remember@blinkist.com with the title of this book as the subject line and share your thoughts!
Suggested further reading: The Snowball by Alice Schroeder
The Snowball (2008) offers a revealing look at the life and times of one of modern America’s most fascinating men: Warren Buffett. Find out how this shy and awkward man earned his first million dollars and how following a few fundamental rules enabled him to become the world’s wealthiest man.
Motivation 1.0 and motivation 2.0: basic needs and the stick and the carrot.Around 50,000 years ago, man was preoccupied solely with his own survival – he was driven by motivation 1.0: the search for food and drink, a safe place to rest at night, and the desire to reproduce and pass on his genes.
Up until a few centuries ago, these basic needs were the main driving force of humanity. By no later than the age of industrialization, however, this had begun to change. Production cycles became more complex, and man started to rely increasingly on a new impetus for production: extrinsic motivation 2.0, which is based on the two incentives of reward and punishment by a third party – also known as the stick and the carrot.
The strategy behind this is that rewards reinforce desirable behavior. With the prospect of higher wages in mind, laborers haul more coal, and modern employees are quicker to respond to emails.
Punishment, by contrast, is intended to prevent undesirable behavior. Someone rebuked in front of the whole team will be late less often, and a person threatened with dismissal for stealing materials is not likely to purloin anything from the workplace.
Employers who rely on extrinsic motivation work on the premise that their workers, if not driven by the consequences of the stick and the carrot, fundamentally have no enthusiasm for their work and will try to shirk any responsibility; therefore, those in a management position must invariably direct and supervise them.
Though it might be that some modern companies have relaxed the dress code or working hours for the sake of keeping their workers happy, Motivation 2.0 continues to dominate the working world. The managing parties of the majority of firms are convinced that when it comes to motivating their employees, the only important factor other than basic human needs is the use of rewards and sanctions – and they manage their workers accordingly.
Motivation 1.0 and motivation 2.0: basic needs and the stick and the carrot.There is another way: Motivation 3.0 – intrinsic motivation in place of exterior incentives. <story> Until 1949, it was assumed that human and animal behavior was controlled by inner drives and exterior motivations. Then professor of psychology Harry Harlowe made a discovery that disproved this theory:
He gave eight Rhesus monkeys a mechanical puzzle. Since the primates would receive neither food nor praise if they solved the puzzle, he was convinced they would not concern themselves with it.
However, the monkeys gave it a go, recognized how it worked, and, without any exterior incentives, solved it with great enjoyment. Such behavior is also typical for us humans. </story> 
 <story> The development of the online encyclopedia Wikipedia, for example, is just as intriguing. Tens of thousands of people write and edit articles for Wikipedia voluntarily, out of pure enjoyment. They invest valuable working time in this endeavor and receive not even the lowest material reward in return. Although the growth of Wikipedia was dependent on voluntary writers, the project became an enormous success. In contrast, its rival product, Microsoft Encarta, whose development was in the hands of well-paid professional authors and editors, was closed down some years ago. </story> 
In both the Rhesus monkeys and the Wikipedia example, motivation is not driven by basic needs, rewards or sanctions. How, then, can it be explained?
There is another inner force that drives us: the intrinsic Motivation 3.0. When a person finds a job fulfilling, no further reward is necessary. Merely the joy of being able to program an application such as Firefox or to publish recipes on the internet for other people to benefit from is, frequently, motivation enough.
Intrinsically motivated people want to be able to dictate when they work, what they work on, and what they are responsible for. They do not need to be directed or rewarded, because they enjoy working and do so voluntarily, without demanding anything in return.
There is another way: Motivation 3.0 – intrinsic motivation in place of exterior incentives.Missing the target: the stick and the carrot can have harmful consequences. <story> In most garages, mechanics are promised a bonus if they carry out a certain number of repairs within a certain time frame. One would expect this external incentive to motivate them to provide results that satisfy their customers.
Instead, the whole strategy often backfires: the mechanics' main goal is to achieve a target number of repairs and secure their reward, and so they are inclined to carry out unnecessary repairs, something which annoys their customers and damages the company as a result. The target, intended to promote efficient work, instead results in customers losing faith in the garage, despite the fact that the workers are delivering on target. </story> 
 <story> The offer of the carrot can also be detrimental, as revealed by an agility test in India. Participants in an experiment were promised various sums of money for hitting targets with tennis balls. Those who were promised the most money performed, contrary to the general expectation, the worst. The financial incentives put a higher pressure on the participants, which not only failed to improve their performance but actually inhibited it. </story> 
 <story> In another experiment, participants were asked to find a way to fasten a candle to a wall, a puzzle whose solution necessitated creative thinking. Here, too, some participants were promised money for solving the problem quickly. Instead of inspiring these participants to think creatively, the prospect of this reward clouded their thinking and blunted their resourcefulness. The incentive seemed to blinker them, impeding the wider vision necessary to solve the task, and resulting in notably longer completion times when compared to participants who were not promised a reward. </story> 
Although the stick and the carrot can be effective as incentives in the case of routine tasks, such as packing bags in a supermarket (where rewards drive employees to work more efficiently), if the work is more demanding or requires a greater degree of creativity, stick-and-carrot motivation can lead to immoral behavior and a decline in performance.
Missing the target: the stick and the carrot can have harmful consequences.Extrinsic promises destroy intrinsic motivation. <story> Children often demonstrate great dedication in striving towards small goals: they romp about with great curiosity and sample everything possible in an attempt to understand the world. It is with great pleasure that they employ their hands, mouth, eyes and ears to learn about anything, whether observing butterflies or learning to stack cans. They are intrinsically motivated to a high degree.
Over the years, however, they change: their urge to search for challenges and novelties lessens. Little by little, they cease to further their skills themselves. </story>  So what happens to their motivation?
 <story> Intrinsic motivation is gradually lost as a person is confronted with a world in which everything relies on extrinsic motivation – as illustrated in a nursery experiment in which children were asked to produce a drawing. Some children were promised a certificate for completing their drawing, and the others were not. When both groups were set to drawing again (this time with neither group being promised a reward), the children who had previously received a certificate no longer wanted to draw, whereas those who hadn’t received any special recognition did.
The promised recognition had destroyed their intrinsic motivation: they had learned to draw only for a reward. Following this pattern, so-called if-then rewards gradually eradicate intrinsic motivation for many activities. </story> 
As children, we are driven by our inner desires to learn, to discover and to help others. But as we grow, we are programmed by our society to need extrinsic motivations: if we take out the trash, study hard and work tirelessly, we will be rewarded with friendly praise, high grades and good paychecks. Slowly, we lose more and more of our intrinsic motivation. On the path towards adulthood, our natural dedication decreases with age.
Extrinsic promises destroy intrinsic motivation.Get into the flow: the inner drive for perfection leads to passion and dedication. <story> Basketball players want to shoot more and more hoops, computer scientists want to create increasingly intelligent programs and photographers want to take better and better pictures. They all have the important component of Motivation 3.0 in common: the inner urge to achieve perfection. This allows them to improve in the area which is important to them, and to bring passion and commitment to the pursuit of their goal. </story> 
Nevertheless, 50 percent of employees in the USA report feeling uncommitted to their job. They fulfill their duties but lack passion. This is because many are under-stretched in their work and have few opportunities for personal development. This suffocates their drive for perfection, which is important if one is to give 100 percent commitment.
Creative people with a drive for perfection often work in a flow state, which means they pursue a task with the highest degree of concentration and passion, forget the world around them and lose themselves entirely in their work. Think of painters who happily work at their pictures for hours on end.
The flow state cannot last for very extended periods, but it does occur episodically. It goes hand in hand with the drive for perfection, which continually develops and always leads to new states of ‘flow.’ Even tastes of success in an on-going piece of work, and the belief in continual improvement, are enough to motivate us in all different areas of life.
Some people think that our skills are written in stone at birth, and that no amount of exertion will allow them to someday be better at running or drawing. These people are difficult to motivate. However, the person who believes they are able to develop further will work hard to run faster or paint prettier pictures.
This also applies to employees, as long as they are entrusted with appropriate orders.  <story> If a superior gives her employees a task that encourages them to constantly improve, this can generate the flow experience in the employee, and they will come to work every day with a lot of dedication and passion. </story> 
While perfection is something we can never achieve, it is nevertheless something we should strive for: we must be ambitious in order to come as close to perfection as possible.
Get into the flow: the inner drive for perfection leads to passion and dedication.The pursuit of meaningfulness: a fundamental intrinsic impetus.In old age, people begin to consider what was important in their lives and ask whether they achieved something. But  <story> What moves people during the course of their lives and why do they act as they do?
To answer this question, psychologists investigated the quest for meaning in the lives of young people. They asked graduates of the University of Rochester about their main aim in life. While some named extrinsic profit targets and wanted to become rich and famous, others specified more meaningful intrinsic goals: to develop personally and to help others, for example by working for international aid organizations.
Some years later, the researchers interviewed the same participants to find out how things had turned out for them. The students with profit goals were no more contented, even having successfully achieved positions as managers in large firms. On the contrary, they suffered from depression and anxiety more frequently than the students who had stated meaningful goals. The latter reported to have achieved a greater happiness in life with their goals, and only rarely suffered from psychological ailments. </story> 
Striving to change something in oneself and in society is a much healthier and satisfying impetus. For more and more people, such meaningful goals have become their main driving force. We are increasingly committing ourselves to voluntary and unpaid activities.
 <story> To have a larger goal in mind is more motivating and activating than money could ever be. Instead of striving for the highest possible profit, people who pursue meaning in their lives want to give something back to society – which, in turn, also gives them personal strength.
The results of further studies support this: the welfare of workers improves in companies where a proportion of the budget can be donated to charitable causes. And doctors are noticeably less drained if they are able to use one day per week to talk with their patients and do outreach service. </story> 
The pursuit of meaningfulness: a fundamental intrinsic impetus.My task, my time, my team! Self-determination promotes intrinsic motivation. <story> For some years, there have been companies whose leadership rests on the self-determination of the workers: instead of monitoring their employees and keeping them on a tight rein, they have either relaxed control or completely let go of the reins.
Google, for example, relies on individual self-organization of working time, and their employees can spend 20 percent of their time on developing their own innovative ideas. The success of this motivation strategy speaks for itself: in these phases, the workers of Google have developed hits such as Google News and Google Mail. </story> 
 <story> The company Meddius also uses self-determination as a source of motivation for its workers: everyone’s goal is simply to complete their tasks within a certain time frame – the management has done away with set office hours. The workers are now much more motivated, since in the afternoons they can still make it to their children’s football games. </story> 
 <story> Another example is Zappos. A typical call-center has an annual staff turnover of 35 percent, because making telephone calls for hours on end is not just boring but also stressful – it offers little room for self-determination and hence provides no intrinsic motivation. Zappos, however, does things differently: the employees are allowed to work from home with no managerial pressure, and can lead conversations in their own style. They are highly motivated, thus remaining with the company longer, and their customer service is also notably better than average. </story> 
 <story> The team you work with also has a significant impact on your motivation: at Whole Foods, the workers, as well as the personnel managers, decide on new employees; and at W.L Gore & Partner, those who want to lead a team have to find people willing to work under them themselves. </story> 
Regardless of whether we are scientists, cashiers or mechanics, we are far more dedicated to our work when allowed self-determination. Some people wish to have more of a say in their working hours, others in the way in which the team is composed. If an employee is allowed these freedoms, they develop a greater potential for achievement, are more contented in their job, and are less inclined to burn out. In short, self-determination contributes positively to motivation.
My task, my time, my team! Self-determination promotes intrinsic motivation.The effective company: upgrading to 3.0.Intrinsic motivation 3.0 is no secret, and yet many businesses do not take advantage of the opportunities it offers.
The motivation of workers in most companies continues to be based on extrinsic factors: to motivate them, rewards and bonuses are dangled before their noses like carrots before donkeys. The conservative management, through an if-then system of reward, generates passivity and lethargy.
It has been proved that creative workers are at their most productive when intrinsically motivated, and high productivity benefits the whole company. Such a change can be achieved through small measures, such as unexpected attention: more than anything else, spontaneous praise and constructive feedback channels the focus of the workers on the joy of their work, and so their natural intrinsic motivation increases.
Workers who are given a voice in the decision-making of their company become more intrinsically motivated. More importantly, if it is made clear how important each individual’s contribution is for the performance of the whole company, each person feels their actions to be meaningful, and hence they become more committed.
The drive for perfection is satisfied through the balanced allocation of tasks: each employee is given a task at a level of difficulty that challenges their abilities and stimulates them without being too complicated and, hence, demotivating.
In order to give employees the sense that they are working towards something communally beneficial, their work can be linked to donations and social involvement. So employees work with the good feeling that they are having a positive effect on others, and that they are fighting for a higher purpose.
A management that is up to date on the forms of motivation will modify its rewards and promote self-determination, perfection and meaningful goals. As a result, the employees will demonstrate a higher commitment and more dedication, instead of simply serving their time in work without the ambition to achieve.
The effective company: upgrading to 3.0.Final summaryThe key message in this book is:
Rewards and sanctions are effective on a short-term basis as performance incentives. In the long run, however, they lead to harmful behavior and destroy the inner impetus. Passion and dedication on the part of workers are better achieved through self-determination, possibilities for perfection and meaningful goals.
The following questions are answered in the book:
What types of motivation are there, and how do they work?

Motivation 1.0 and Motivation 2.0: basic needs and the stick and the carrot.
There is another way: Motivation 3.0 – intrinsic motivation in place of exterior incentives.
Missing the target: the stick and the carrot can have harmful consequences.

How does intrinsic motivation work, and what influences it?

Extrinsic promises destroy intrinsic motivation.
Get into the flow: the inner drive for perfection leads to passion and dedication.
The pursuit of meaningfulness: a fundamental inner impetus.

How can intrinsic motivation be increased in everyday work?

My task, my time, my team! Self-determination promotes intrinsic motivation.
The effective company: upgrading to 3.0.

Suggested further reading: A Whole New Mind by Daniel Pink
In an age where computers and well-trained workers from low-paid countries are taking over even white-collar jobs, what can you do to stand out? As we move out of the Information Age and into a new Conceptual Age, the answer is to start embracing the aptitudes associated with the right side of your brain, which were previously thought of as less valuable than analytical left-brain skills. To find these blinks, press “I’m done” at the bottom of the screen.What’s in it for me? Learn how to embrace your failures to become successful.The world these days is a competitive place where success is the only currency that counts. Failure, which is usually considered the opposite of success, or even an obstacle on the road to it, is seen as a something to be avoided at all costs.
But are our failures always such disasters? Not necessarily – and it may well be time to review our opinions about failure as a concept.
Contrary to popular belief, failure actually isn’t the opposite of success, but rather a necessary part of it. Failure doesn’t need to be avoided. Instead, it should be embraced, because we can learn from it and become stronger in the future as a result.
In these blinks, you will learn why failure can be a good thing. You will see why failure is an opportunity, what it can teach you and how you can overcome it. Learning to fail today will help you be successful tomorrow.
You’ll also learn

how a marketing debacle paved the way for Coca-Cola’s greatest success;
how the experience of failure led Thomas Edison to develop the world’s first recording device; and
why Peanuts cartoon character Charlie Brown shouldn’t be a role model.
Failure can’t be avoided, so think of it as a critical part of moving forward.While most of us do our best to avoid failure, most entrepreneurs know better. The majority of successful businesspeople attribute their success to their ability to persevere after failures. In fact, it takes entrepreneurs an average of 3.8 failed ventures before they manage to start a successful business.
These entrepreneurs recognize that even if their business eventually fails, they’ll be in a better position than they were when they started. But if their fear of failure had stopped them at the beginning, they wouldn’t have gotten anywhere.
In the real world, a single failure doesn’t always mean the end of the road.  <story> Take Sergio Zyman, a marketing executive for Coca-Cola in the 1980s. When Zyman launched the new Diet Coke range, it was hugely popular.
This success bolstered Zyman’s standing in the company and gave him more confidence in his daring ideas. So later, when Coca-Cola wanted to introduce a new formula for Coke, Zyman proposed to introduce it under the name “New Coke.” Zyman believed the new idea would sell so well that he convinced Coca-Cola to stop producing the old version.
To Zyman’s surprise, New Coke was a complete flop. The rebranded bottles failed to sell, costing Coca-Cola approximately $100 million, and Zyman his job. To recover from this blow, Coca-Cola reintroduced their flagship drink under a new name: Coca-Cola Classic.
As it turned out, Coca-Cola Classic was a huge hit. The drink became more popular than ever, and Zyman’s failure to transform the brand in the first instance ended up leading to a great success for the company in the long run. In 1993, Coca-Cola chairman Roberto Goizueta rehired Zyman, acknowledging that daring thinkers can’t be right every time. </story> Failure opens up new opportunities.While we largely assume failure can only lead to negative outcomes, the opposite is often true. Many chance discoveries and new opportunities have emerged from failures. This was certainly the case for legendary inventor Thomas Edison.
 <story> Edison worked for years to improve the telegraph machine, with little success. But along the way, he discovered something else entirely. By making certain adjustments to his failed telegraph machines, he was able to record sound that could be played back again and again.
Edison used his lack of success in one pursuit as an opportunity to develop something entirely new. Twentieth-century author William Marston referred to experiences like Edison’s as “drawing dividends from failure.” Marston, who was an inventor as well as a psychologist, believed that this ability was crucial to success. </story> 
Beyond opening our eyes to new possibilities, failure can be a powerful incentive to work hard and change our lives.  <story> Consider the story of the billionaire founder of Home Depot, Bernie Marcus. In 1978, he was fired from his role as CEO of hardware chain Handy Dan as a result of internal conflicts.
At the time, Marcus’s parents required his financial support to make ends meet. Marcus was determined never to fall victim to a corporate power struggle again. He enlisted Arthur Blank, a coworker that had also been fired from Handy Dan, and together they opened their own hardware store the following year. Today, their store – Home Depot – is known as one of the most successful retail endeavors in history. </story> You might not be to blame for your failures, but you are responsible for your successes.Most of the time, failures occur as a result of factors that we can’t control. When that happens, we don’t need to blame ourselves, we just need to take responsibility for finding new solutions.
 <story> The author recounts the story of his friend, Greg Horn, whose supermarket was destroyed in the 1997 Kentucky floods. Ironically, Horn was insured for almost every type of damage and theft – except flood damage.
Obviously, the floods were beyond Horn’s control. But he wasn’t deterred by his unfortunate circumstances. Rather than giving up, Horn took responsibility for his situation and resolved to get his store up and running again as quickly as possible.
While continuing to support all 80 of his employees, Horn got to work on fixing the store. The repairs cost him $1 million, but he was able to reopen the store only 21 days after the flood.
Horn’s story shows that we can only shape our future by taking responsibility for our circumstances. </story>  For another example,  <story> Think of American tennis player Roger Crawford. Crawford was born without many of his fingers and toes, a condition known as ectrodactylism.
In spite of his condition, Crawford took the attitude that he was still responsible for his future. He chased his dream of becoming a professional tennis player, eventually receiving certification from the American Professional Tennis Association as the first American tennis professional with a disability.
Crawford attributes his success to the responsibility he takes for his own life, which ran a very different course to another man he knew with ectrodactylism. Unlike Crawford, the man thought of himself as a victim of unfair circumstances, and he felt bitter about the world – an attitude that prevented him from succeeding. </story> Turning failure into knowledge is instrumental to success.Could you imagine starting a new project and aiming to fail? Probably not; most of us prefer to avoid making mistakes. And yet, failure always has the potential to create instructive, even inspiring, learning experiences.
 <story> The power of embracing failure is illustrated poignantly in an anecdote from David Bayles and Ted Orland’s 1993 book Art and Fear: a ceramics teacher divides her class in two and tells one half that they’ll be graded on the quantity of art they make, and so should make as many pieces as they can. The other half are told to focus on creating one piece, the quality of which will determine their grade.
Though the latter group spent longer crafting a single work of art, they were outshone by the first group, which produced pieces of notably higher quality. Because they were able to learn from their mistakes with each subsequent piece they made, the students in the first group were able to develop both their skills and their creative ideas along the way. </story> 
It’s important to note that we only learn from failure when we’re determined to understand it. One strip from the comic Peanuts reflects on this phenomenon.
 <story> Charlie Brown is building a sand castle at the beach, which gets flattened by a wave. He looks down at the sand castle and knows there’s something to be learned from the situation – but he doesn’t attempt to figure out what the lesson is.
Like Charlie Brown, in the wake of failure many people tell themselves that they don’t have the time or energy to investigate what went wrong. But this simply puts us at risk of making the same mistake again. Identifying the causes of failure allows us to learn, grow and, in Charlie Brown’s case, build sand castles farther away from the waves. </story> Overcoming our fear of failure and taking new risks brings long-term success.When you drive across town, how often do you catch only green lights? Probably never, but that’s alright – it’s just a part of driving. How might life be if we saw our failures as red lights? They might stop us temporarily, but they aren’t a reason to give up on our destination.
Failure can feel very discouraging, but this doesn’t have to be the case. Fear of failure is debilitating and can damage our chances of achieving success, so it’s crucial that we fight it at every opportunity.
 <story> Just consider pioneering American aviator Amelia Earhart’s story. When attempting to fly around the equator, she crashed her plane on takeoff. Despite this, she wasn’t discouraged and pushed on with her flying career. She eventually achieved no less than six world records, including that of the first solo female pilot to fly across the Atlantic. </story> 
We can also take heart in the fact that we overcome our fear of failure in countless daily activities. Driving a car, for instance, is a dangerous activity, but we do it anyway. In fact, choosing to cycle or stay at home out of fear of having a car crash might even put you at greater risk: a total of 15 and 17 percent of accidents resulting in injuries are linked to cycling and home-based activities, respectively.
Our professional lives also provide opportunities to overcome our fear of failure and act. Suggesting a daring strategy or proposing to take on more responsibility are great ways to confront your fear of failure and earn the respect of your team, too.
Refusing to take risks, on the other hand, is more likely to leave your team members feeling like you’re, at best, unambitious, and at worst, lazy. Taking risks inevitably leads to failure some of the time, but by embracing this, you’ll be more likely to win big in the long run.To make the most of opportunities for success, you need clear goals, social skills and a positive mindset.Learning to embrace and overcome failure opens up new opportunities for success. But to be able to use these opportunities, you’ll need to practice three things: goal-setting, people skills and a positive mindset.
American writer Don Marquis noted that while most people don’t truly know what they want, they’re still willing to sweat blood to get it. The trick to success is channeling this desire for change into well-defined objectives. So, rather than simply complaining that you’re tired of working, set goals that’ll allow you to create a better lifestyle. For example, you could invest in property to create a passive income that’ll allow you to retire sooner.
Along with goal-setting, outstanding people skills can carry you to success. Today, most jobs, projects and goals can only be achieved by mobilizing stakeholders, investors, teams and employees. By spending time working on your communication, negotiation and conversational skills, you’ll be better able to win the support of your peers and open up new opportunities for achieving your ambitions.
Finally, maintaining a positive mindset gives you an immediate advantage. Learning to see the value in even the most trying of experiences can be the difference between giving up and persevering.  <story> American author W. Clement Stone once told the story of a girl who, after moving across America to join her husband, became dissatisfied with her new life.
In a letter written by her mother, the girl learned of an old anecdote about two men in prison. When one looked up from the prison bars, he saw mud. When the other looked up, he saw stars. The girl realized that while she was unable to change her situation in life, she was able to change her attitude toward it. By adopting a positive outlook, she learned to discover new opportunities that her dissatisfaction had blinded her to. </story> Final summaryThe key message in this book:
Failure is inevitable, but it can also be beneficial. From revealing new ideas and pushing us to become our best, to helping us learn about our weaknesses, experiences of failure provide us with valuable opportunities. Along with clear goal-setting and a positive mindset, embracing failure is key to unlocking success. 
Actionable Advice
Seek out stories of failure that inspire you. 
Is there an entrepreneur, leader or dreamer that inspires you, from the past or present? Though their successes might be what makes them a role model to you, try spending some time researching their lives to find out more about their failed ideas as well. Not only will this give you a deeper understanding of their successes, their missteps might also offer an inspiring lesson or two.
Got feedback?
We’d sure love to hear what you think about our content! Just drop an email to remember@blinkist.com with the title of this book as the subject line and share your thoughts!
Suggested further reading: The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership by John C. Maxwell
The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership (1998) explains what it takes to become a great leader. These blinks highlight many of the traits, skills and characteristics that have given leaders around the world the power to attract loyal followers and lead them toward success. Find out what Ray Kroc, Winston Churchill and Mother Theresa all have in common – and what you can do to become a better leader yourself.
What’s in it for me? Learn the simple rules for being more popular and persuasive.Since How to Win Friends & Influence People was published in 1936, it has sold over 15 million copies. The advice contained within these blinks is deceptively simple, but remains as effective as ever. Just adhering to simple guidelines like smiling when meeting someone and remembering their first name can help anyone become more likeable and influential.
In these blinks you’ll learn

why Theodore Roosevelt was so popular among his staff;
why being critical almost forced Abraham Lincoln into a sabre duel; and
what everyone’s favorite conversation topic is.
If you want to make a good first impression, smile.It is our actions, not our words, that show others what we think of them. Thus, when we meet someone new, the easiest way to say “I like you and am very happy to meet you” is to smile.
We humans are suckers for people who smile at us. If we meet someone new and see them smile, we tend to automatically like them as well. The smile of a baby, for example, immediately makes us feel warm and fuzzy inside, as does seeing a dog wag his tail like crazy because he’s so happy to see us.
If you want to make yourself instantly likeable, the first thing to do is to show others how much you enjoy being around them. If you’re happy to see someone, the other person will be happy to see you too.
Psychologists have also uncovered a positive side-effect of excessive smiling. It seems that the connection between positive emotions and smiling is not a one-way street; consciously smiling can lead to positive emotions, just as positive emotions can lead to (involuntary) smiling.
This means that by smiling, we not only make other people happier, but ourselves as well.
Hence it can be said that while a smile costs nothing, it brings a lot of joy for everyone involved.If you want others to like you, don’t criticize them.Criticizing people and pointing out their mistakes doesn’t encourage them to change their behavior, and it certainly doesn’t help them learn anything. This is because people are not primarily driven by reason but rather by emotion.
Even when criticism seems warranted, it usually won’t have the intended effect. The person you criticize won’t really listen to what you’re saying, because they will feel attacked and their natural reaction will be to immediately defend their own position by fighting back.
Hence, criticizing someone might help you blow off steam, but in the long-term it will only make others like you less.
 <story> Many successful individuals actually made it a habit to never openly criticize others. Benjamin Franklin, for instance, claimed that the secret of his success was to “speak ill of no man.”
Abraham Lincoln learned this lesson as well. He used to publicly criticize his opponents, until one day his criticism almost forced him into a saber duel. From that moment on, he stopped openly criticizing others. During the Civil War, he famously told those who spoke harshly of the Southerners, “Don’t criticize them; they are just what we would be under similar circumstances.” </story> 
Criticizing someone is easy, but it takes character to be understanding and to forgive others for their mistakes and shortcomings.
If you want others to like you, try to understand what drives them, accept their shortcomings, and make it a rule to never criticize them openly, for this criticism will only come back to harm you.If you want others to gladly do you favors, show your appreciation frequently.How can you get someone to do you a favor? You must ensure they want to do it. And how is that possible? You must motivate the other person with a simple reward: your sincere appreciation.
One of the strongest drivers of human behavior is the desire to be appreciated by others. We all like being complimented and hearing we’re doing a good job.
Some people even claim that all of civilization ultimately rests upon the human desire for appreciation. Our desire for approval and praise makes us climb the highest mountains, write novels and found multimillion-dollar companies.
So what can we learn from this? The possibility of receiving praise as a reward is a much stronger incentive than the threat of punishment for a bad job. For someone to want to do you favors, they must know you as someone who shows appreciation, not someone who is quick to criticize.
To show your appreciation and make yourself someone people enjoy working with, use simple phrases such as “Thank you” or “I’m sorry,” and learn to give sincere praise. Don’t shower people with phony flattery, or they will see through it and it won’t work. Your appreciation must be honest.
To attain this honesty, the right mindset is crucial. Try thinking like Ralph Waldo Emerson, who said that every person he met was superior to him in certain ways, so there was always something to learn from and appreciate in other people.
If you take others seriously and treat them with respect, you will find it easy to value their work and show them honest and sincere appreciation – and in turn they will like you and enjoy working with you.If you want to be interesting yourself, be interested in others.We all love a good listener, especially when that person encourages us to speak about ourselves. All humans are naturally interested in themselves, and hence we’re always happy to meet someone who shares this interest.
So if you want to appear likeable and interesting, don’t talk but listen. Ask others about themselves and encourage them to speak as much as they like. The secret of being interesting is simply to be interested.
To really listen means giving the other person your full attention. Make a conscious effort to show that you’re genuinely interested in learning about everything they have to say. Don’t interrupt them or let yourself be distracted.
Sigmund Freud was famous for his listening skills. He excelled at showing others how very interesting he found everything they said, and in return they felt completely comfortable talking to him and would reveal even their most private emotions and experiences to him.
On the other hand, talking about yourself excessively, failing to listen to others, and constantly interrupting them when they are speaking will make others dislike you instantly. If you only talk about yourself, it indicates you are self-centered and care only for yourself, making you thoroughly unlikeable to others.
Therefore, to be more likeable, try to be a good listener and encourage others to talk, especially about themselves.Show your appreciation for others by talking about what’s important to them.People enjoy talking to good listeners, but even more than this they enjoy talking to someone who is knowledgeable about things they’re interested in, such as their jobs or their hobbies. Everyone likes to talk about things that are important to them, so naturally they like other people who share their interests.
Take Theodore Roosevelt, for example.  <story> Whenever he was about to meet someone for the first time, he thoroughly prepared for the meeting by reading everything he could about the other person’s interests. He understood that the route to any person’s good graces is the ability to talk about the things they value the most. </story> 
Of course, there is one topic everybody is interested in: themselves. Every person feels that they are valuable and interesting, and we enjoy others confirming this belief. Benjamin Disraeli was certainly right when he said, “Talk to people about themselves, and they will listen for hours.” </story> 
Whenever you meet someone, find something you admire about them and tell them about it. Regardless of whom you meet, you can always find something to admire in them.  <story> Dale Carnegie, for example, once wanted to brighten the day of a bored service employee, so he told him, “I certainly wish I had your head of hair.”
The easiest way to get into the mind-set of appreciating others is to keep in mind the Golden Rule: treat others as you would like others to treat you.We like people who show their appreciation and remember things about us, like our names.How do dogs manage to win the affections of people within just seconds of meeting them? The answer is simple: unconditional love. A dog is always interested in you, and shows its interest enthusiastically. People respond to this behavior, because we appreciate it when we are shown affection. It promotes our self-esteem and makes us happy.
So what is the lesson we can apply to our daily interactions? If you want to win others over, show them your full appreciation and be enthusiastic about it. Demonstrate that you’re interested in them and in what they have to say, and try to remember the things they tell you.
In practice, this means you should always greet others cheerfully, be a good listener, and make sure you remember personal details like names and birthdays. This demands a bit of effort – for example, you may need to take notes after every encounter with a person – but it will pay off in the long run.
The simplest trick for generating affection is to remember and frequently use another person’s name, since everyone likes to hear their own name. Whenever you meet someone new, remember their name and try to use it as you talk. The other person will like you instantly.
 <story> Theodore Roosevelt was popular among all his staff because he made a habit of greeting them all by their names. He also deliberately made time for listening to them and tried to remember what they said. By doing this, he showed others his appreciation, and he got far more back in return. </story> Avoid all arguments – they cannot be won.Think about it: What’s the point of arguing with others? Nine times out of ten, once the battle is over, both parties will be even more determined in their stance than they were before.
There is nothing to gain from such arguments. No matter what the result, your opponent won’t agree with you. Rather, they will just resent you and your arguments.
Therefore, the only solution is to avoid such disputes from the start.
When you encounter opposition to your ideas, there’s often no need to find an agreement. It’s already valuable to have others challenge your views, without imposing your own ideas on them. Be thankful for their input, and think about their reasoning, instead of automatically arguing to bolster your views.
If two people always agree on everything, then one of them is dispensable. Nevertheless, if two people constantly argue and yell at each other, there can be no real discussion.
Hence, avoid arguments, but when they are absolutely necessary and inevitable, keep your emotions out of them. Initially, both parties should maintain a distance to each other so they can first think about the topic in private. They should only meet in person once the initial emotional reaction has dissipated.Never tell others they are wrong; they will only resent you.Whenever you tell someone they’re wrong, you’re basically saying, “I’m smarter than you.” This is a direct attack on their self-esteem. Their feelings will be hurt, and they will want to retaliate.
In general, whenever you want to express your opposition to someone’s opinions, never say things in absolute terms like “It is clear that…” or “Obviously, the case is…,” since this implies “I’m smarter than you.” Even if you do think you’re smarter, never openly display this mentality to other people.
To get the other person to reevaluate their view, it’s much more effective to be humble and open-minded; for example, “I thought differently but I might be wrong. I’ve been wrong pretty often, so let’s have a look at the facts again together.”
If you frame your opposition like this, the other person is much less likely to become upset or to resent you before even hearing what you have to say. With a little luck, a soft approach will quickly turn opponents into allies, making it possible for you to change their opinions.
 <story> Benjamin Franklin made it a habit to never openly oppose others. When speaking to others, he even banished certain expressions from his vocabulary such as “certainly” and “undoubtedly.” He felt they were too rigid and reflected an unbending mindset. Rather, he used phrases like “I conceive” or “I imagine.” </story> Whenever you are wrong, admit it immediately and clearly.We all make mistakes. Whenever you do and someone is about to berate you for it, there’s a simple way to steal your opponents’ thunder: admit your mistake quickly and clearly.
This can have an unexpected effect: just a second ago, the other person was planning to bolster his own self-esteem by criticizing you, but the moment you admitted your “guilt,” the situation completely turned around. If the other person still wants to feel important, they must be generous and forgive you.
 <story> Dale Carnegie experienced this once when a police officer caught him walking his dog without a muzzle. Even before the officer began to talk, Carnegie himself expressed how very, very sorry he was, and how unacceptable his misdeed was. Normally, the officer might have been very critical and preachy, but thanks to this upfront admission of guilt, the officer did the opposite: he accepted Carnegie’s apology and let him go without a fine. </story> 
This approach also has another very positive side-effect: publicly criticizing yourself is much more pleasant than having to listen to others do it.
Public self-criticism is also likely to make others think more highly of you. Anyone can defend themselves in the face of criticism, but it takes character to openly admit your weaknesses and shortcomings.To be convincing, get others to say “yes” as often as possible.If you want to persuade someone to change their opinion, never let them know this is what you mean to do. No one likes having to change their opinion; hence, you must persuade them indirectly.
First of all, try to win the other person over by being nice, polite and patient with them. If you act aggressively and combatively, your opponent will stop listening and will feel the need to fight back and defend their position.
To avoid this, always emphasize shared interests. Make it clear that both you and your opponent have the same goals. Never reveal your own views before ensuring the other person believes your interests are shared.
Once the other person sees your goals as converging, the most effective way to persuade them of your views is to make them agree with you as often as possible. Build your argumentation by asking your opponent lots of small questions that can only be answered with a “yes.”
The reasoning behind this approach, also known as the Socratic method, is simple: the more yeses you get during a discussion, the greater the probability that you will also get a “yes” when you finally reveal your real position on the subject.
By using the Socratic method, you can even get people to agree with views they would have fiercely opposed only moments before.Final summaryThe key message in this book:
Make sure others like you by smiling, listening and showing your appreciation for them. This will make them more inclined to listen to you and do you favors. 
Actionable Advice:
Smile!
The next time you meet someone new, make a conscious effort to smile at them as you’re shaking hands. This greatly increases the chances you’ll make a good first impression, and as everyone knows, first impressions count for a lot.
Suggested further reading: Influence by Robert B. Cialdini
Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion explains in detail the fundamental principles of persuasion that get us to say yes, including how they are used against us by compliance professionals like salesmen, advertisers and con artists. Knowing these principles will allow you both to become a skilled persuader yourself and to defend yourself against manipulation attempts. To find these blinks, press “I’m done” at the bottom of the screen.
What’s in it for me? Get an inside look at what made Sir Alex Ferguson’s teams so great.When you can’t stop winning, eventually people will want to know your secrets. And when one of the greatest soccer managers of all time starts talking about what made his teams great, you want to hear it. 
Enter Sir Alex Ferguson, who won dozens of trophies with Manchester United during his 27 years in charge, who led teams that slayed clubs across England and Europe, and who has come to symbolize what it means to be a winner. His teams could play with flair and style or unsmiling discipline. They were comprised of pretty boys and hard workers alike. But, no matter who they were or what their playing style, they just about always seemed to win.
How? Why? What made them so good? Obviously it didn’t hurt to have world-class players like David Beckham, Cristiano Ronaldo and Wayne Rooney on board. But, even as players came and went over the years, Ferguson kept on winning. These blinks go into his leadership secrets and what he believes ensures top-level performance.
In these blinks, you’ll find out

why your presence alone is such a powerful motivational tool;
what makes Cristiano Ronaldo so great; and
how to set the right expectations for your team.
Coaches must constantly listen and observe.We’ve got two ears and two eyes – but just one mouth. Is it a coincidence, or should we be listening and observing twice as much as we talk?
The truth is that listening always pays off. It is a great opportunity to learn new and useful things – coach Alex Ferguson can attest to this. Ferguson knows the value of listening and knows it well. Just by listening, he picked up some tips and tricks that have served him for a lifetime. 
For example,  <story> Notts County manager Jimmy Sirrel once mentioned to Ferguson that he was always careful to make sure that player’s contracts never expired around the same time. This helped prevent collusion against the manager and the club. Ferguson has kept that gem of wisdom to this day. </story>  
 <story> Like listening, learning to observe well will also give you an edge. This is something Ferguson discovered when his assistant manager Archie Knox suggested that, rather than running his training sessions, he should sit back and watch them. 
This turned out to be a turning point in Ferguson’s coaching career. When coaching right alongside his players, Ferguson’s focus would be on the ball. By stepping back and observing his players train from a distance, the details of their performance were less visible. However, the overall patterns of their behavior, attitudes and energy levels suddenly became clear. </story>  
Still, focusing on the details can be helpful, too. As the saying goes: know your enemy.  <story> Ferguson developed a system of closely watching and analyzing footage of opposing teams before a match. 
This strategy is what helped Ferguson’s team win the 1999 Champions League Final against Bayern Munich. Based on the analysis and information he’d gleaned from the footage, he was able to predict Munich’s two substitutions late in the game. He zoomed in on the details and zoomed out to the broader picture, demonstrating that flexible observational skills are indispensable for any manager. </story>  Success is not possible without discipline and determination.Most of us assume that the world’s best soccer players are simply gifted from birth with skills we should never dream of having. But is that really the key to their success? Not quite. 
There are a lot of talented soccer players out there, which means a lot of competition. If you want to stay in the game, you need to sustain yourself. This is why discipline is so instrumental in achieving success. 
 <story> Ferguson is one of the toughest disciplinarians in soccer. When he began his career as manager at Manchester United, he first tackled particular problem areas. 
Players used to wear clothes of any company that sponsored them, giving the team a rather unprofessional, money-grabbing look. Ferguson swiftly implemented a proper dress code to eliminate this. Rules regarding haircuts and jewelry were also introduced, signaling to players that a lax attitude would not be tolerated. </story>  
 <story> Discipline and determination go hand in hand, another attitude that players learned under Sir Alex. Take Cristiano Ronaldo, for example. When Ferguson brought him to United, Ronaldo’s determination to become the world’s greatest soccer player was clear as day. 
This determination is what allowed him to maintain such incredible discipline. Even today Ronaldo takes ice baths after every match and keeps his weight seven pounds below his optimal weight. Strict measures such as these allow him to keep playing football at an incredibly high level despite his age. </story>  Great managers (and coaches!) think several steps ahead to lead players on their journey to success.Like discipline and determination, preparation is another key factor ensuring top athletic performance.  <story> At Manchester United, the players who performed the best during a match were always the ones who had prepared the most. David Beckham, Cristiano Ronaldo and Wayne Rooney were all known to stay late after training to perfect their free kicks. 
In 1996, David Beckham scored his now-infamous goal in a match against Wimbledon all the way from the halfway line. Viewers thought it was a miracle, but for Beckham it was nothing more than a prepared piece! He’d practiced the shot so many times after hours that he was able to seize the opportunity during the match. </story>  
But it’s not just players that have to think ahead – sporting organizations do, too. Fostering young talent is a long-term project. 
 <story> In the same way that young people begin as trainees at a corporation with the aim of working their way up to vice-president or CEO, a young player at Manchester United works their way up from the youth academy to the B team. From there, they can graduate to the A team, then to the reserve team, and ultimately, to the first-team squad. 
FC Barcelona takes a similar approach to training their young players. Here, the benefits of allowing young players to grow together over years are particularly clear. Think of the great trio of Lionel Messi, Andrés Iniesta and Xavi Hernández. Having trained together for so long, these players know each other extremely well and have an incredibly advanced and unpredictable passing game that stuns defenders! </story> Balance your players' strengths and weaknesses, and stay down-to-earth. <story> One great rule of thumb when it comes to managing a team is avoiding extremes. Whether from unrealistic expectations or big personalities, extremes can damage the close bonds of a team. Keeping your team balanced prevent extremes from creating tension. 
A balanced team must have diversity and unity. Take Ferguson’s approach to the age of his team members. He didn’t want to have only young and inexperienced members, but also didn’t want only older, slightly less fit players. An equal mix of both was the best solution. 
Ferguson was also careful to ensure his team had a balanced amount of creative players and dependable players. </story>  Of course, creative players are what makes a team’s attacking side so thrilling. Think of players that can overwhelm the opponent’s defense or make a sudden unbelievable sprint down the field like Cristiano Ronaldo. But a team wouldn’t survive if it didn’t have the right amount of steady, reliable defenders, too! 
 <story> Team managers must also keep their expectations balanced. Ferguson learned this lesson early on in his career. After an eight-game winning streak, he declared to the press that his team wouldn’t lose a single game that season. Yet, just after this bold announcement, his team went on to lose all but one game, finishing in sixth place. Ferguson then recognized that high expectations only serve to put pressure on players. Instead of being encouraging, high expectations usually lead to a weaker performance. </story> Presence and praise are powerful tools to get the best out of your players.Whether it’s that great high school basketball coach you had or an inspiring activist, the best leaders have a special something that inspires their teams. So what’s it made of?
 <story> First off, great leaders make their presence felt. Sometimes without even realizing it! Ferguson had no idea that his presence was so important to his team until he missed a few training sessions. 
Rio Ferdinand, one of his players, revealed that the sessions simply didn’t have the same energy as when Ferguson was coaching. Ferguson recognized that his presence itself was a motivating factor. Over his 27 years of management, Ferguson was present at all but three of 1,500 United games. </story>  
Secondly, great leaders know that support is more effective than criticism when change is needed. Ferguson always provided criticism to help players improve their technical skills, but did so tactfully. 
For instance, he’d always wait until players had calmed down after a game, rather than criticizing them immediately afterwards. And, he always presented his criticism as a form of encouragement, letting players know that he believed they were capable of better performance. 
Finally, good leaders are understanding.  <story> When David Beckham was criticized harshly in the press for receiving a red card in a 1998 World Cup match against Argentina, Ferguson knew the least helpful thing he could do was to criticize Beckham like everyone else.
Instead, he spoke with Beckham to let him know that he was there for him, that these things happen and that he shouldn’t let it hurt his confidence. Ultimately, Ferguson believes that the two words “well done” are the most powerful tools a coach has to help players reach their full potential. </story> Final summaryThe key message in this book:
Great coaches are always observing, seeking out new ways to understand and overcome challenges their players face. By encouraging discipline and determination, and taking on calculated preparation, coaches can give players their shot at success. Top performance is maintained by keeping the team balanced and supporting players with presence and praise. 
Actionable advice:
Deal with failure and don’t be a quitter!When you do fail, take responsibility for your failures without blaming others. Instead, figure out what you did wrong and learn from it. This is why, in general, team members that are winners take great pride and look forward to avenging defeats. Don’t forget, it’s useless to get lost in self pity. 
Got feedback?
We’d sure love to hear what you think about our content! Just drop an email to remember@blinkist.com with the title of this book as the subject line and share your thoughts!What’s in it for me? Overcome grief through resilience and joy. <story> When Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer at Facebook, was suddenly widowed at age 45, she had two small children in elementary school. The shock of losing her partner at such a young age coupled with the reality of raising her kids on her own sent her into a spiral of shock and grief.
During this period, she found solace in the support of a friend, who gave her evidence-based studies about resilience, mourning and joy. During a weak moment, she cried out to her friend that she wanted her husband, Dave. Her friend said that that option – Option A – was no longer available. These blinks are about facing the realities of loss, building resilience and making the most of Option B. </story> 
In these blinks, you’ll learn

how to overcome the three Ps;
the dangers of the mum effect; and
why your grieving loved ones need a panic button.
Trauma often leads to coping with “the three Ps.”If you’ve been confronted with personal tragedy or any traumatic and life-changing event, it can dramatically alter your outlook.
Psychologist Martin Seligman has identified three common responses to tragedy, which he calls the three Ps.
The first one is personalization – blaming yourself for the tragedy.
The  <story> Author, Sheryl Sandberg, went through this stage after her husband died during a vacation in Mexico. Since the initial medical report listed the cause of death as head trauma caused by a fall from an exercise machine, Sheryl blamed herself for not keeping a closer eye on her husband.
But Sheryl’s brother happens to be a neurosurgeon and was sure that the initial report was wrong; he tried to convince Sheryl that a fall from such a small height couldn’t be fatal.
Sure enough, the second autopsy proved him right; Sheryl’s husband died from cardiac arrhythmia due to a non-diagnosed coronary artery disease.
But this was just another thing Sheryl could personalize, and she began to ask herself, “Why didn’t I try harder to change his diet or get him to see his doctor more often?” Again, those around her, including her doctors, tried to assure her that it wasn’t her fault and that no single lifestyle change would have saved him. </story> 
Another common reaction, and the second of the three Ps, is pervasiveness – when the pain and sadness reaches every part of your life.
 <story> Being Jewish, the Sandbergs held Shiva, a seven-day period of mourning. Afterward, her children went back to school, and Sheryl tried to return to work. But the pain of her husband’s death felt all-consuming.
Sheryl couldn’t get through a meeting at work without holding back tears and being on the verge of breaking down. </story> 
This brings us to permanence – feeling like the pain is going to last forever.
This can be the most difficult P to overcome because when we feel depressed, it’s easy to think that the load is so immense, we’ll never be able to shake it.
But in the next blink, we’ll start to see just how we can move on.Nurturing resilience is the key to resuming a joyous life.The three Ps can make you feel like you’re walking around with a lead blanket draped over your body, which is how one of Sandberg’s friends described her grief.
But even though it can feel like there’s no escape, there is a way out. And the first step to getting yourself on that path is to find resilience.
 <story> Being resilient is about understanding that pain is a part of life and that suffering and loss aren’t things that can be avoided.
The realization that suffering, aging, sickness and loss are inevitable is so important that it’s considered the first noble truth of Buddhism. And only when we acknowledge this fact of life can we start lessening the pain and conquering our demons.
It’s also important that we recognize and appreciate the good along with the bad.
One way to do this, and to help get through those tough times, is to keep a daily record of your emotional state.
To get better, you need to acknowledge what you’re feeling, whether it’s good or bad, so that you can process these emotions and let them go. Otherwise, if you suppress or ignore your feelings, you’ll only end up stuck with them for a longer period.
Sheryl Sandberg kept her journal by her bed, and every night she wrote down three moments of happiness from her day, which was enough to alleviate her emotional state.
She also began to keep a note of her accomplishments – even the smallest ones, like getting to work on time, doing the laundry or just making a good cup of coffee.
While it might seem meaningless, recognizing events like these will help shift your attention away from the negative and remind you that positive experiences are still possible, even when you’re grieving. </story> 
No one lives a life without loss or suffering. People you might characterize as always being happy still go through ups and downs. They’re just resilient and can see the good that’s still there when times are tough.Learning to take back joy helps you go on.One of the tricky parts of dealing with grief is allowing yourself to be happy. After suffering a loss, you may have caught yourself enjoying a laugh and then felt ashamed about it. But there’s no need to.
When we add this kind of remorse to the grieving process, it only makes it harder to find resilience.
Another common form of shame for those who’ve lost someone is survivor’s remorse, and asking yourself, “Why did my loved one die and not me?”
This guilt isn’t limited to death, either. You might experience it after surviving a round of mass layoffs at your workplace. Or you might feel gratitude for being spared, which can lead to shame for being happy when your coworkers are out of a job.
When coping with a death, you might find comfort in thinking about what your loved one would have wanted. Surely they’d want you to be happy, rather than feeling guilty that you’re still alive.
 <story> It’s also important to recognize that it’s possible to feel happiness and a profound sense of purpose in times of great despair.
For instance, Sheryl Sandberg has a friend named Virginia, whose 53-year-old husband died suddenly in his sleep. A few years later, her son died of a heroin overdose on the night before her daughter’s wedding.
Some might be paralyzed with grief after events like these, but Virginia felt it was important to go ahead with the wedding, even when she had to plan her son’s funeral the following day.
She also found meaning in her son’s death and recognized the good that could come of it, as she began working in local drug prevention programs and advocating for better legislation.
Virginia believes that it’s important to find joy in times of grief and she takes responsibility for making this happen.
You can find your joy by taking on new hobbies and activities, such as exercising, making art or playing an instrument, like the piano – which Sheryl found great joy in returning to. </story> Spending time with others who are coping can help the healing process.Perhaps you’ve heard  <story> The famous story of the Uruguayan soccer team that crashed in the Andes mountains in 1972?
This tale is a remarkable example of resilience as 16 of the 33 crash survivors were able to endure deadly freezing conditions.
It also shows how resilience isn’t just found within individuals, but also among individuals who can gain strength together.
Over an agonizing 72 days, the survivors faced starvation, avalanches, frostbite and having to eat the frozen flesh of their dead teammates and loved ones in order to survive. What’s even more shocking is that they managed to keep hope alive even when they heard through their broken radio – which could receive, but not send, messages – that their search party had been called off.
One way of generating hope was through sharing their dreams for what they’d do once they got back to civilization, such as starting a restaurant or a farm and spending time with their loved ones.
But hope and talking aren’t enough. Crucially, it was combined with what psychologists call grounded hope, which happens when action is taken to make things better in the immediate future.
The survivors did this by sending teams to find supplies and locate shelter, which resulted in a series of small but gradual improvements.
First, they found the tail-end of the crashed plane, which provided a roof of sorts and insulation that could be turned into sleeping bags. This, in turn, kept them warm at night and allowed them to go on longer expeditions, eventually hiking 30 treacherous miles over ten days to find a local man on horseback, resulting in their rescue. </story> 
This is, of course, an extreme example, but it can provide a helpful perspective on just how resilient humans can be, especially when they’re part of a group that has shared the same experience.
This is why support groups can be of great help in the grieving process; they’ll not only be understanding of what you’re going through, but they can also help motivate you to reach goals.Don’t be afraid to acknowledge the pain of others.Have you known someone who’s lost a loved one, or gone through some other trauma, and felt the desire to avoid talking to them or spend time with them until they were done grieving?
It’s a common feeling, and you may even convince yourself that you’re doing them a favor by giving them space, but silence and isolation won’t help their resilience.
Psychologists have a name for the kind of friend who avoids bringing up painful topics and acts like everything's fine: they’re a non-questioning friend who’s practicing the mum-effect.
While these friends don’t mean any harm, their actions can lead to the grieving person feeling more alone than usual.
 <story> After her husband’s death, Sheryl Sandberg went to her friend’s house for dinner, and her hosts spent the entire time making small talk about sports and the weather.
This wasn’t unusual: everywhere she went, whether it was a speaking event or running into friends at the park, people would avoid acknowledging her loss. But it didn’t help; it just made her feel invisible, as if people couldn’t see her or recognize her suffering.
So, if you have a friend who’s grieving, you’ll find that making a small gesture to acknowledge their pain can make a big difference. </story> 
 <story> Sheryl was especially hurt by people who would ask her, “Hey, how’s it going?” Because she knew they just expected her to respond with the usual, “Good thanks, how are you?”
The simplest way to make a difference is to ask, “How are you today?” This acknowledges that the person is still going through a difficult period and that some days are better than others. This is a simple, kind way to express empathy.
When Sheryl heard this small difference in the question, it helped her to open up, be honest and process the grief.
She was also happy on the occasions when someone offered her one of the best signs of compassion: a hug. </story> You can ease the stress of those in need by offering specific help. <story> If you really want to help someone who’s grieving, acknowledging their situation is a great first step, but there are other simple steps to take.
One of the best is to let them know that you’re there to help.
In a way, this is like offering someone a panic button, which has been proven to reduce anxiety.
In 1971, there was a classic experiment on urban stress by social psychologists David C. Glass and Jerome Singer. They asked participants to solve puzzles and perform focused tasks while frequently bombarding them with loud noises and music. As a result, many signs of stress, such as high blood pressure and heart rate were recorded.
However, some participants were given a panic button that they could press at any time to stop the noise.
Surprisingly, none of the participants actually used the button, but those who had the option stayed calmer and made fewer mistakes.
It proved that we don’t need silence to be calm and endure stress, but rather, the knowledge that help is within our reach. </story> 
This is something you can provide by acting like that panic button for those you care about.
 <story> The co-author, Adam Grant, knew a student who had committed suicide. So he now begins the first class of each of his courses by writing his phone number on the board and letting his students know that they can call him if things become too difficult. It’s his way of providing a panic button. </story> 
It’s also best to offer specific help, and to not just say, “Let me know if you need anything.”
This is a common phrase, but it doesn’t make it any easier for the person to ask for help. Most people don’t want to seem like trouble, so they’ll usually avoid asking for anything at all.
But when you offer something specific, like helping them buy groceries or look for a new home, they’ll recognize your offer as genuine and coming from someone who cares.Final summaryThe key message in this book:
Loss is difficult, but the key to bouncing back in the face of trauma and tragedy is to nurture your resilience and allow yourself to rediscover your sense of joy and hope. This can mean drawing support from groups and friends and not relying on your own strength alone. If it’s not you, but someone you know who is going through a tough time, don’t assume they need time to themselves. Instead, make sure to acknowledge their pain and reach out with specific things you can help them with.
Got feedback?
We’d sure love to hear what you think about our content! Just drop an email to remember@blinkist.com with the title of this book as the subject line and share your thoughts!
Suggested further reading: Lean In by Sheryl Sandberg
Through a combination of entertaining anecdotes, solid data and practical advice, Lean In examines the prevalence of and reasons for gender inequality both at home and at work. It encourages women to lean into their careers by seizing opportunities and aspiring to leadership positions, as well calling on both men and women to acknowledge and remedy the current gender inequalities.What’s in it for me? Discover the history, secrets and inner workings of power.As a child, entering primary school can be a bit of a shock. If you were raised by conscientious parents and believed everything they told you about honesty and fairness, chances are there was a steep learning curve ahead of you when lumped in with your new classmates. Suddenly it became clear that fairness is for suckers and wimps!
The reality is, always trying to be fair can seriously hamper your success. Of course, if you’re a top-level business manager or politician, you already knew that. But there is hope even if you’re not.
Robert Greene was once just like you, but decided to look deep into the history and machinations of power to learn all about how to gain it, use it and defend against abuse of it. He came up with a whopping 48 laws of power, and these blinks will focus on the seven most illuminating ones.
In these blinks, you’ll learn

how a beginner’s mistake can help you win a chess tournament;
why a minister was thrown into a dungeon for throwing a party for his king;
and how, sometimes, your best chance of winning a battle is to surrender.
Flaunting your brilliance won’t win you your boss’s favor, but making him or her shine will.Have you ever tried to impress your boss, only to fall flat on your face? Well, if you’ve ever failed to impress someone in a position of power, it could actually be the result of outshining them. After all, powerful people want to be the center of attention; trying too hard to impress them can shift attention away from them and onto you, hurting their pride in the process.
But what’s even worse is acting superior to them, a move that could lead your boss to think of you as a threat to their position and, consequently, to let you go from the company.
 <story> Take the relationship between King Louis XIV of France and Nicolas Fouquet, the king’s finance minister. A smart and loyal advisor, Fouquet became indispensable to his ruler, but this didn’t guarantee him the position of prime minister when the incumbent minister died. To gain the king’s favor, Fouquet threw a lavish party at his extravagantly furnished chateau to show the king how well-connected and influential he was.
The next day, Fouquet was arrested by order of the king, who felt overshadowed and dubiously accused the minister of stealing to amass such extravagant wealth. Poor Fouquet was bound to live out his days in a prison cell. </story> 
 <story> So, you know how not to impress your boss, but how can you gain her favor? A better strategy is to always make the person in charge look smarter than everyone else, including you.
For example, the astronomer and mathematician Galileo Galilei desperately wanted funding for his research, and found an ingenious way to get it. When he discovered the four moons of Jupiter in 1610, he made sure to link his discovery to the enthronement of Cosimo II de’ Medici.
How?
In an act of cunning, Galileo said that the four moons represented Cosimo II and his three brothers, while Jupiter itself was comparable to Cosimo I, the four brothers’ father. Thanks to playing to his ruler’s ego, Galileo was named the official philosopher and mathematician of Cosimo II. </story> Take credit for other people’s work and be sure to protect your own.Would you ever consider claiming parts of another person’s work as your own by plagiarizing a few clever snippets? Did you ever slyly steal answers from a classmate during a math test? Maybe you did or maybe you didn’t, but the truth is that attaining power often means using the work of others to your advantage.
 <story> Why would you waste your energy doing things for yourself if somebody else can do them for you? For instance, did you know that the Serbian scientist Nikola Tesla worked for the famous inventor Thomas Edison? And it was actually Tesla, not Edison, who was key in creating Edison’s famed dynamo by improving what was at the time Edison’s rather primitive design.
To make this discovery, Tesla worked tirelessly for an entire year, often clocking 18-hour days in the lab. But today, it’s Edison’s name that is attributed to the dynamo.
Little has changed since Edison’s day. Just think about how few politicians write their own speeches and how famous novelists “borrow” from other writers.
But reaping the benefits of work done by others isn’t enough – you’ll also need to take credit for it. For example, Edison and his company claimed all the credit for Tesla’s work on the dynamo. Edison didn’t so much as share a penny of his profits with Tesla, even though he had promised him $50,000!
So, keeping Tesla’s experience in mind, remember that the credit given for an invention or creation of any kind is just as essential as the invention itself. </story>  If you don’t claim credit, someone else will jump in, steal your idea and all the credit that comes with it.Gaining power over somebody means getting to know them – and posing as their friend is the best way to do so.Maybe you’ve encountered this problem before: you’re striving to outmaneuver the competition but can’t quite manage to accurately predict your competitors’ strategies. How can you get around this?
Well, another trick to gaining power is to gather important information about the people you want to control. And to get something from someone, you need to know about them. After all, knowing a person’s plans, weaknesses and desires will help you both win their favor and guide their actions.
 <story> Take the art dealer Joseph Duveen, who in 1920 resolved to win over the industrialist Andrew Mellon as a client. But Mellon was not easily convinced, so Duveen decided to bribe Mellon’s staff to pass him secret information about their employer.
When the industrialist traveled to London, Duveen made sure to follow him. The dealer showed up at the same art gallery Mellon was visiting, supposedly by chance, and engaged him in a vibrant conversation.
Since Duveen knew so much about what Mellon liked, he easily gained his favor by making him believe that they shared common tastes in art, among other things. As a result, the encounter ended on good terms and Mellon soon became Duveen’s best client. </story> 
So how can you accomplish what Duveen did?
You can hire informants or, even better, act as a spy yourself by posing as a person’s friend. While most people opt for hired spies like Duveen did, this strategy is risky. After all, how can you be sure that your spies are being honest with you?
To be sure your information is accurate, it’s best to do the spying yourself. This is no easy task, as people generally hesitate to share private information with strangers.
However, they’re not as secretive when in the company of someone they consider a friend, which makes posing as a companion a highly effective strategy.Act unpredictably to confuse the competition.You probably know that most people don’t like sudden changes, but did you know that you can use unpredictability to your competitive advantage? Acting unpredictably can keep your competition off balance, and here’s how:
In competitive scenarios, your opponents will likely try hard to figure you out by monitoring your habits and decision making, and they won’t hesitate to use this information against you. In this situation, your best move is to act erratically – being unpredictable will protect you from being understood by your opponents, which will intimidate and unnerve them.
 <story> Take the famous 1972 chess match between Bobby Fischer and the Russian champion Boris Spassky. Fischer knew that Spassky’s technique was to target the routines and predictability of his opponent, and Fischer used this information to his advantage by playing as unpredictably as possible.
Even in the days leading up to the match, Fischer made it seem unclear whether or not he would be able to make it to Reykjavik, where the pair was set to play. And when he did arrive, it was moments before the match was set to be cancelled due to his absence. After this stunt, Fischer proceeded to complain about everything from the lighting to the chairs and noise in the room.
When they finally began the tournament’s first match, Fischer made careless mistakes before giving up, an odd move since he was known for his persistence. Spassky couldn’t tell if he was actually making mistakes or just bluffing.
At this point, Fischer had Spassky just where he wanted him: when your competitor is sufficiently confused, you’re in a perfect position to win.
Why?
Doing things that perplex your opponent will cause him to try to explain your behavior and distract him from the task at hand, giving you the chance to strike.
So, after two games of chess, Fischer began winning game after game with bold moves. When all was said and done, Spassky conceded and Fischer was named world champion. </story> Surrendering to a stronger opponent will help you gather power down the line.Have you ever gone up against someone knowing that you’d never win? While it’s common for people to fight for glory against all odds, it’s not the route to power. So what should you do when faced with an opponent more powerful than you?
Give up.
This may seem an odd strategy, especially since humans instinctively fight their enemies to protect themselves. But when a competitor acts with aggression, he will expect you to respond in the same way. In cases when you know that the competition has you beat, your best move is to do just the opposite and surrender.
Why?
If you give up, or at least convince your enemy that you’ve done so, you can ensure that he won’t deliver substantial damage. Not only that, but your opponent, thinking he has won, will also let down his guard. When he does, you’ll have a golden opportunity to regain your strength and plan your next move.
 <story> Take the case of Bertolt Brecht, a writer of revolutionary, communist ideas who immigrated to the United States in 1941 to join other intellectuals exiled from Europe. After World War II, Brecht and his peers were summoned before the US Congress, which was investigating a supposed communist infiltration of Hollywood.
While his fellow radicals caused a commotion and challenged the authority of Congress by yelling and being uncooperative, Brecht was calm and politely answered the questions he was asked.
Because of his good behavior, Brecht was released by the government, which even offered to help him with his immigration procedure – in the end, their offer was irrelevant because he left the country and continued writing about his firm beliefs.
And his stubborn friends?
They were blacklisted, unable to publish for years!
So, do as Brecht did and make surrender a tool of self-empowerment. </story>  Build long-term strength instead of making major sacrifices for short-lived bouts of glory.If you want to be treated like a superior, you’ve got to act like one.Are you higher up the ladder than someone else? If so, it’s essential to act the part – unless, of course, you prefer to be seen as their equal. But a word of warning: acting as if you’re equal to others while holding a superior position to them will only inspire contempt.
 <story> Take Louis-Philippe, king of France during the 1830s and 40s. He despised royal ceremonies, as well as all the symbols associated with the throne. In defiance of the formalities of his position, he was infamous for wearing a gray hat and holding an umbrella in place of his crown and scepter. In fact, he didn’t even keep the company of royalty, mostly befriending bankers instead.
But the king’s behavior didn’t do him any good – he was soon hated by both the rich and the poor. Wealthy people disapproved of the unlikely king, while the poor disliked a king who acted like the lower classes but didn’t look out for them. Even his banker friends turned on him when they found they could insult him without the fear of being reprimanded.
All of this hatred mounted until the people rose up against him and he was forced to abdicate the throne.
In general, people are suspicious of higher-ups who act like their equals; doing so leads people to thinking you’re dishonest, as they’ll assume your modest ways are a sly trick to cloud your privileges. </story> 
Then what’s a better tactic?
You should instead use the strategy of the crown to make people treat you like royalty. Simply put,  <story> If you believe you’re above others and act in this way, other people will begin to believe you’re superior, too. When people see you acting superiorly, they’ll assume there is good reason for you to do so.
For instance, Christopher Columbus behaved like royalty and, consequently, most people viewed him as such. In fact, it was his confident socializing with the Spanish royal family that eventually convinced the Spanish throne to finance his voyages. </story> To gain power over others, seduction works better than coercion. <story> Picture yourself as Chuko Liang, head strategist for the ancient Chinese state of Shu: War has just been declared on China by King Menghuo from the south and stopping him and saving the country lies in your hands.
But before learning what you should do, it’s essential to know what not to do.
First of all, using force and coercive tactics is never wise, even when they’re the easiest choice. In fact, if you do exercise your strength, people will secretly resent you because force breeds resistance. Liang knew this and didn’t attack with force, even though he probably would have defeated the invading army.
However, if he had, Menghuo would have resented both China and Liang and the country would have to continuously protect itself. This would have exhausted everyone involved and bred paranoia.
A better strategy is seduction. People tend to be controlled by their emotions, and by playing on their feelings, you can make them do what you want – of their own free will.
You can do this by threatening your opponent so that they expect pain, and then suddenly treating them kindly. For example, when Menghuo attacked China, Liang captured him and his entire army. Menghuo was separated from his soldiers and expected the worst, but to his great surprise he was offered delicious food and wine instead.
While Liang released his enemy’s soldiers, he would only let Menghuo go when the enemy king promised that if he was ever captured again, he would bow to the Chinese king.
And while Liang captured Menghuo several more times, he always let him go. Then, on the seventh capture, Menghuo dropped to Liang’s feet, surrendering himself and his kingdom.
Even though Liang could have killed Menghuo when he captured him, a fact that the enemy king was aware of, he gave him plenty of chances and treated him well each time. As a result, Menghuo grew increasingly grateful and indebted to the Chinese king, until he finally surrendered of his own volition. </story> Final summaryThe key message in this book:
The world has historically been ruled by power and conquest. Of course, much has changed in the modern era, but the importance of control and dominance has remained. By learning from the failures and victories of historical power struggles, you too can become a force to be reckoned with. 
Suggested further reading: Mastery by Robert Greene
Mastery is a #1 New York Times bestseller. In it, author Robert Greene argues and illustrates that everybody can achieve mastery of a skill or field if they just follow the established steps of historical and present-day masters. Based on interviews and studies of some of the best in their respective fields, Greene provides a diverse array of tips and strategies on how to become a master.
Got feedback?
We’d sure love to hear what you think about our content! Just drop an email to remember@blinkist.com with the title of this book as the subject line and share your thoughts!
What’s in it for me? Attain the lifestyle you want, become more productive and automate your income stream.If you could have any life you wanted, where would you be right now? On a yacht somewhere in the Caribbean? Maybe scaling a Swiss mountain or whitewater rafting in Costa Rica?
Whatever your dream is, these blinks will show you how to plot a roadmap there. You’ll find out how any corporate cubicle jockey can first become more productive, then cut back their working time and eventually break free from their day job entirely to pursue their dream.
In these blinks you’ll learn

why the “worst-case scenario” is almost never as bad as you think;
how you can become an “expert” in anything; and
why you should strive to read your emails only once a week.
To the New Rich, being rich means living a splendid life, right here, right now.Lots of people think it’s worth their while to live a life of drudgery today just to have some golden, wealthy years of retirement somewhere in the distant future.
Millions of modern desk slaves sacrifice their best years working in jobs they don’t enjoy. To maintain faith in what they are doing, they trick themselves into believing that work has to be hard and that they will be paid back at some point in the future.
In reality, they end up deferring everything joyful in their lives only to wake up one day and realize that the good times never materialized.
The New Rich do not accept this way of life: they abandon their desk-slave jobs and choose a lush lifestyle here and now.
Becoming one of the New Rich doesn’t mean you need millions of dollars under your mattress; a fulfilling life is often much cheaper than people think.
The things you’re dreaming of – such as taking trips around the world or having lots of time for hobbies – are by no means exclusive to millionaires. These things are also available to the New Rich, and they do not need millions to enjoy them.
What you really need is to be mobile and flexible – you need to be able to do whatever you like whenever you like. This usually requires only a moderate, automatic income: a source of money you can maintain effortlessly from anywhere in the world.
This is the key to living exactly the life you want to.Write your own rules, and always aim high.The New Rich never follow someone else’s rules unquestioningly. Instead they write their own, ignore conventional expectations, and are willing to step on people’s toes when necessary.
Adopt this mindset and you, too, can aim high and accomplish even the biggest goals, the so-called “unrealistic” things such as travelling the world, becoming the world champion in tango dancing or learning a new language every year.
Aiming high will set you apart from all those who think “realistically” and settle for mediocrity.
In fact, since most people settle for good rather than aim for great, the competition for good goals is often far more fierce.
“Unrealistic” things might be easier to accomplish than you think, because only a few dare to think big. It’s often lonely at the top, meaning less competition for you.
While most people tend to overestimate the risks of dreaming big and aiming high, the New Rich try to understand what the worst-case outcome of any gutsy decision could be. For example, if you decided to travel the world right now, and everything went wrong, what is the worst that could happen?
Intuitively, most people dread a journey into the unknown, but often this is simply because they never consider the true risks they are facing. When you take a critical look at the risks, you often find out that even the worst-case “catastrophe” is not the end of the world at all. For example, if you lose all your money and discover your journey isn’t going as expected, you can always cancel it and start something new.
Adopt this mindset and you will find the calm that is helping the New Rich conquer the world.Take action today, and step outside your comfort zone.Instead of living their dreams, most people spend their lives running away from them. They take the safe road and live a life of drudgery, drawing comfort from the illusion that at least they will enjoy their retirement.
If you want to join the New Rich, you have to stop lying to yourself. The right moment to start living your dreams is right now. Forget about the sentence, “I’ll do this tomorrow.” You need to start doing the right things today.
To do this, you must be willing to cross the boundaries of your comfort zone. Staying within your comfort zone allows you to constantly lie to yourself so you can maintain a blind faith that everything is going to be good someday, somehow.
This way of thinking is often mistakenly labeled as optimism, but in fact it’s mental laziness. It comes from a fear of the challenges you must face if you want to achieve your big goals in life.
Face your fears. Do something that scares you every day. Living a successful life means always being willing to do unpleasant things, to have unpleasant conversations, and to disregard the conventions other people stick to.
When you see an attractive stranger on the street who you would like to meet, don’t be like most people and feel too intimidated to even approach them. Why not just go ahead and start a conversation?
What we fear doing the most is often exactly the thing we should do to turn our dreams into a reality.
The most dangerous thing you can do is to do nothing and wait and see.Even as an employee, you can live the life of the New Rich.The life of the New Rich is mainly characterized by unlimited mobility. This means giving up the life of a desk slave.
But not everyone feels they can take that step. The good news is that, even as an employee, you can travel the world. Just try to gain maximal freedom within the boundaries of a corporation.
How do you achieve this? First of all, make yourself indispensable. Have your company invest money into you, attend trainings and become an expert they can’t afford to lose.
The moment you’ve become indispensable, start selling your boss on the idea of remote work; that is, working from home or from anywhere else in the world.
Try to keep the transition to remote work as smooth as possible, since most managers won’t like the idea at first. This can mean suggesting a test period to start with; for instance, you might suggest that you work remotely one day per week for just a couple of weeks, after which you meet with your boss to discuss how it went.
During this test period, make sure you prove how much more productive you are while working from home. And you should be, because there are far fewer distractions at home than at the office. Since you don’t have to waste half your day commuting, chatting to colleagues or attending useless meetings, you should get much more done in the same amount of time.
After successfully proving this to your boss, expand the amount of remote work step by step, until, one fine day, you don’t have to show up at the office ever again.Be effective, not efficient: don’t do everything right, do the right things.Time is not a good indicator of productivity. Spending a lot of time working does not mean you’re doing the right things or that you’re doing them in the right way.
In today’s work-places, it’s hard to measure the productivity of a white-collar worker. Time spent at the office is the most obvious indicator, which is why it’s such a popular metric to use. However, employees need only to appear busy by filling their day with pointless tasks and spending as much time at the office as possible to trick their bosses into believing they are doing a great job.
The New Rich, on the other hand, reject all the limitations and absurd rules of corporate jobs. To them, being productive means getting as much done as possible with as little work as possible.
There’s no point being concerned with efficiency, which means getting things done as quickly as possible. Unimportant tasks are still unimportant even when you deal with them efficiently. Your time is better spent on important tasks – on being effective. Focus on only those tasks that will bring you closer to your personal goals and dreams.
To focus on the important things, use the 80/20 rule: in most situations, 20 percent of the work produces 80 percent of the results. The rest of the work – most of what we do – usually has very little effect. Hence, make good use of your time by focusing on the tasks that have the greatest impact.
If you get rid of everything else, you can spend the time you gain on important tasks, pleasant pastimes, or both.Time is money: get rid of time-thieves and go on a low-information diet.Most of the things people do during a regular workday have no impact whatsoever; hence, getting rid of them doesn’t decrease the quality of your work but does save time.
For example,  <story> Collecting information by reading newspapers takes a lot of time. Go on a low-information diet and focus on obtaining only the small amount of information that is actually relevant to your work. </story> 
And make sure you get this information in the most efficient way. Don’t spend hours researching a topic when instead you can call on an expert to answer even complex questions quickly. This saves time and often provides better results.
During an average workday, you’ll likely encounter many time-thieves: activities or people that use up your precious time while giving very little in return. Get rid of them. Meetings, for example, are like black holes where time and energy disappear, and most are completely unnecessary anyway. In fact, the only time a meeting is appropriate is when a decision calls for input from several people. If this is the case, make sure there is an agenda and a fixed schedule to keep participants focused on results and to stop them from babbling.
Never attend meetings where you’re not absolutely indispensable. If the meeting is “successful” without you, then apparently you can skip future meetings as well.
 <story> The same goes for pointless chatter with colleagues. Avoid it, or focus on the subject at hand. When people approach you, don’t ask, “How are you?” but rather “What can I do for you?” Tell people upfront, “Sorry, but I only have two minutes, so let’s get down to business.” </story> Get rid of distractions like emails, and have others play by your rules.To the New Rich, being productive means achieving a lot with as little work as possible. This means focusing on things that bring you closer to your personal goals. If you want to know how important a task is, ask yourself, “If this was the only thing I did today, would I be happy with this day?”
Whenever your answer is “yes,” make that task a priority, and ensure high-priority tasks get done before any others. In an ideal work-day, you will accomplish all your important goals before lunch.
Never start your day by checking emails. Emails are time-thieves, so give them as little attention as possible. If you have to check them, do so only twice a day: once before lunch, and once in the evening. Then move to reading them only once per week.
Make your new policy known: create an auto response that tells people your time is too limited and valuable to spend checking emails all day and therefore your response may take some time.
Make sure people don’t start calling you over every minor question they have, thus constantly interrupting your concentration. Most things can wait. Have people leave you messages via email or recorded voicemails, which you will check once your more important tasks are done. Only urgent things should be an excuse for interrupting you.
This also means you can bundle tasks. Set aside a fixed period of time to deal with all the small tasks that have accumulated on your to-do list rather than allowing them to interrupt you constantly while you are working on something important.Set up a business that brings a steady stream of income and works without you.If you want to earn a living while only working a few hours per week, you need an automatic source of income. This means you have to make other people work for you and get them to invest their time instead of you having to invest yours.
Today, it’s fairly easy to set up a business that can run without much involvement from you. Decide what work is required for the business to operate smoothly, divide it up according to type, and find an expert to manage each area. Today, most things can be outsourced. There are many companies that specialize in manufacturing products, shipping them, or doing after-sales service, among many other things.
Even complex and ever-changing tasks can be outsourced. Virtual assistants from India, for instance, are often cheap yet highly professional.
Such a personal assistant can do nearly everything you would usually do yourself. As long as the task and its goal are crystal-clear, they will get it done without your help.
By setting up a business in which every task is outsourced to an expert, you can make your involvement almost completely unnecessary. To achieve this, keep two things in mind:
First, everyone has to be able to communicate with one another without you as an intermediary. Don’t make yourself a bottleneck in any part of the process!
Second, delegate responsibilities. People can solve most problems without your help, if you just let them. You’d be surprised at how smart people are once you ask them to take over certain responsibilities and make their own decisions.Find a product and test whether there’s a market for it.To create an automated income, the first thing you need is a product.
One option is to simply re-sell a product that already exists in the marketplace. This is fairly easy, but the potential profits may be quite limited.
Hence, it often pays to create your own product. This is much easier than most people think. It usually takes only a few brainstorming sessions to come up with a plethora of ideas.
Before you choose a product and start manufacturing it, you need to know whether your potential customer base is large enough to make it successful. Having a product is not enough; you need customers too.
 <story> To test the market, offer your hypothetical product to real customers. One way to do this is to create a fake web store that does everything a real web store would do except that after people click “Purchase,” a message tells them the product is currently out of stock. This will show you how many people are willing to buy your product. Make sure you collect the email addresses of these hypothetical customers though, so you can tell them once your product is actually available. </story> 
 <story> Another way of testing your product is to set up fake online advertising campaigns. Compare several ads to see which versions of your product generate the best response and lead people to click “Purchase” most often.
Tim Ferriss used this approach to find the best title for his book: out of several options, The 4-Hour Workweek got the most clicks. </story> 
Like him, you should never start selling a product without first testing whether there are customers for it.Be a professional: act like one, and be picky about your customers.No matter what kind of product you want to sell, you must be credible in the eyes of your customers. They have to trust you in order to trust your product.
 <story> Academic titles such as PhDs are always a good way to make yourself more credible, but you can also prove your expertise by writing articles about topics related to your product or by holding related seminars. In other words, if you want to sell health products, make sure you become a health guru first. </story> 
Also,  <story> People tend to trust larger companies more than they trust small ones. Hence, always try to make your company appear bigger than it is. Whether it’s true or not, give people the impression they are dealing with a company with many employees. For instance, provide several contact email addresses on your website. Use titles that sound like middle-management such as “head of customer support” to give the impression there’s a multi-layer hierarchy with lots of employees in the company. </story> 
Overall, you should aim at being a solid professional: always act like one and use high standards when choosing your customers. The 80/20 rule applies to customers as well as to productivity: 20 percent of the customers are often responsible for 80 percent of the revenue, and likewise another 20 percent are responsible for 80 percent of the trouble, complaints and stress you endure.
Find out which of your customers are responsible for your revenues and attend to them; meanwhile, get rid of the customers that account for little revenue but create a lot of trouble.Go premium, make a big promise, and keep it.Once you’ve found the right product, you still have to think about several other aspects of your automatic income generator.
To sell your product, you must be able to promise your customers big benefits from using it, and you must keep this promise. Only when you’re able to summarize these benefits in one simple sentence should you start selling it.
 <story> Make it as easy as possible for your customers to buy your product without them having to make a bunch of decisions first. The more choices a customer has – for example, between colors – the more likely he will cancel the purchase and walk away. </story> 
Finding profitable customers often means choosing a premium segment. Ask for a premium price and create a premium image so that you can earn greater margins and thus build a more profitable business.
The higher the profit on your products, the fewer you need to sell to meet your income goals, and hence the fewer customers you'll need to deal with.
Also, the people willing to pay a higher price are often those who are the least likely to cause trouble, complain or return your products. If they buy premium, they probably don’t have to watch every penny, so even if a product doesn’t meet their expectations they probably won’t bother returning it.
You can even risk offering these customers a full refund plus extra compensation if they want to return your product. If you pick the right customers, they won’t take unfair advantage of this offer; rather, they will trust you and your product even more.Final summaryThe key message in this book:
Instead of living the nine-to-five life of a desk slave, join the New Rich, create an automated income and enjoy a full life here and now.
Actionable Advice:
 <story> Stop checking your emails in the morning and get your important tasks done by lunch.
If you’re like most people, you probably check your emails first thing in the morning. This is a mistake, because your mornings should be dedicated to the highest-priority tasks you have for the day, and checking your inbox will only slow you down. </story>  Ideally, you’ll have all your crucial tasks done by lunch, and the rest of the day will be just gravy.
Suggested further reading: Quitter by Jon Acuff
Finding out where you really want to be in life requires patience, hard work and planning, but anyone can do it with the right dedication. Filled with many personal anecdotes from a 12-year span of job-hopping, Quitter shows you the smartest way to quit your day job for your dream job. To find these blinks, press “I’m done” at the bottom of the screen.
 What’s in it for me? Adopt the habits that distinguish highly effective people from the herd.Why do some people seem so adept at leading successful and fulfilling lives while others struggle with failure and a lack of meaning? Simple: the former group has adopted seven key habits that make them highly effective at dealing with life, work and the world around them.
In these blinks, you’ll learn about all seven of these habits:

Sharpen the saw: Don’t work yourself to death. Strive for a sustainable lifestyle that affords you time to recuperate and recharge. </story>  so that you can stay effective in the long-term.
Be proactive: You have a natural need to wield influence on the world around you, so don’t spend your time just reacting to external events and circumstances. Take charge and assume responsibility for your life.
Begin with an end in mind: Don’t spend your life working aimlessly, tackling whatever job is at hand. Have a vision for the future and align your actions accordingly to make it into a reality.
Put first things first: To prioritize your work, focus on what’s important, meaning the things that bring you closer to your vision of the future. Don’t get distracted by urgent but unimportant tasks.
Think win-win: When negotiating with others, don’t try to get the biggest slice of the cake, but rather find a division that is acceptable to all parties. You will still get your fair share, and build strong positive relationships in the process.
Seek first to understand, then to be understood: When someone presents us with a problem, we often jump right to prescribing a solution. This is a mistake. We should first take time to really listen to the other person and only then make recommendations.
Synergize: Adopt the guiding principle that in a group, the contributions of many will far exceed those of any individual. This will help you to achieve goals you could never have reached on your own.
In order to change, you have to address your character and not your behavior.Generally speaking, there are two routes to self-improvement and to changing your own life:
One way is addressing the skills necessary for a certain desired behavior; that is, by studying communication skills or time-management techniques.
Alternatively, you can take the long way round by digging a bit deeper and working on your character: the fundamental habits and belief systems which form your view of the world.
The first approach is effectively an attempt to take a shortcut to success: becoming rich without working for your money, or achieving personal growth without undergoing any real development.
Yet real personal growth cannot be reached via shortcuts. On the road to true effectiveness, you cannot afford to skip a single step.
This is true for accomplishments such as playing tennis or the piano, and just as true for the emotional development of a person as well as the development of their character.
 <story> If you really want to change, you need to work from the inside out. Only once you’ve drastically changed yourself can you start to change the world around you. If, for example, you would like to have a happy marriage, you must first become a more positive person yourself. </story> 
If you want to be seen as a trustworthy person, it is no good working on your communication skills – you have to work instead on actually becoming a more trustworthy person.
Instead of scratching the surface, you have to really address your inner character.Working on character involves aligning personal paradigms with universal principles.Paradigms are the building blocks of our character. They are our fundamental principles – the glasses through which we see the world.
Our perception is not an objective reality, but rather a subjective interpretation tinted by the paradigm-glasses we wear.
The habits which form a large part of our actions are direct results of those paradigms.
Since they are the core of our character, paradigms are the key to making any change. If we want to change ourselves, we have to change our fundamental principles first. Only in this way can we change our subjective reality, and with it our behavior.
You also need to be conscious of your own paradigms. If you want to overcome ingrained habits, such as procrastination, self-centeredness or impatience, you first have to recognize the fundamental principle which forms this habit.
If you want to achieve true effectiveness, it is useful to align your personal paradigms with larger, universal principles – values such as fairness, honesty and integrity.
Since the majority of people agree upon these principles, we can see them as natural laws of lasting validity, almost as a yardstick by which we can measure our own values.
It is possible to measure all human behavior against these universal principles. The more we are able to align our behavior with them, the more effectively we will be able to integrate into the world around us.
The next blinks explain how we can address those fundamental principles, and change our behavior.“Sharpen the saw” if you want to keep sawing.If you spend the whole day sawing away and yet never find time to actually sharpen your saw, you are doing something fundamentally wrong.
Taking care of your most vital resources is crucial if you want to be lastingly effective: these resources are your own workforce.
It is essential to be proactive in this regard, and this applies to all areas of life.
 <story> To stay physically fit, you need to take regular exercise, eat healthily and avoid undue stress.
To stay mentally healthy, you should, as far as possible, read plenty of good books, make time for your own writing in some form – be it letters or a diary – and actively plan your future according to your long-term goals.
It is also important to take care of your social and emotional health by forming as many positive relationships as possible and never neglecting your social needs.
Spiritual health also contributes greatly to lasting effectiveness: this can mean praying or meditating, but it can also mean regularly confronting your own norms and values and reflecting actively upon them.
Most importantly, you should consciously make time to recuperate and recharge. </story>  Most people claim they could never find time to do this. In the long-term, however, time spent in this way will produce numerous rewards with regard to productivity and well-being.
This way of thinking applies to all those areas of life in which productivity has a role to play: businesses should also think not only of the product they want to produce, but also of the well-being of its producers (in this case, their staff).“Be proactive” and take control of your own fate.Within each of us exists the basic human need to try to influence the world around us, or, in other words, to be proactive.
This is what distinguishes us from animals: an animal simply acts according to the way it is programmed. An external stimulus triggers a particular reaction. Humans, by contrast, "program" themselves. We are able to reflect in the time between receiving a stimulus and reacting. The ability to "externally" observe ourselves and our actions allows us to actively decide how we react to outside influences.
 <story> An extreme example of true proactivity was Viktor Frankl, who was able to maintain control over his own feelings during his time in concentration camps, including Auschwitz. He simply decided that he was not going to allow his tormentors to control his innermost feelings. </story> 
 <story> Many people, by contrast, are not proactive in life, but rather reactive. They react to external circumstances and their behavior and emotions are dependent on what goes on around them. Hence, for example, they can be in a good mood only if the weather is also good.
People who are proactive, on the other hand, determine their own weather. </story>  They are propelled by their inner values and they assume responsibility for their own lives. Their personal decisions determine their behavior, and they do not allow it to be affected by external conditions.
This manifests itself most clearly in their use of language: people who are reactive place the responsibility for their fate on external circumstances. They say things like "It wasn’t my fault," or "It’s out of my hands."
Proactive people take control of their own fate: the decisions they took yesterday have made them what they are today. They say things like "I’ve decided to…" or "Let’s try and find a solution to this problem."“Begin with the end in mind” – if you want to achieve something, you need long-term goals and a mission statement.Many people work towards meaningless goals. They worry about being efficient rather than effective.
Being efficient, i.e., getting the maximum amount done in the shortest amount of time, is pointless if you don’t know why you’re doing it.  <story> Not knowing what’s really important to you and what you’re working towards is like climbing a ladder which is set against the wrong wall.
To avoid this, it is important to first be clear about your long-term goals. To this end, it can be useful to ask yourself the Funeral Questions: What do I want people to say about me at my funeral?; As what sort of person do I want to be remembered?; For what do I want to be remembered? </story> ?
A person who is clear about what their major, long-term goals are will be able to align them with everything they do.
It can therefore be useful to come up with a personal mission statement and write it down. In this mission statement, you set down your personal creed: the basic values and principles you believe in, and the larger goals you want to achieve in your life.
The mission statement is your personal constitution, an established standard by which everything else can be measured and valued. Having such a compass gives you a sense of direction and security.In order to attain your goals, you need to visualize the outcome of every action as clearly as possible before doing it.All actions are in fact carried out twice: first when we visualize the action as a mental picture, and then when we actually do it.
The more exact and realistic the mental picture of the action is, the better its execution will be – and, hence, the better the results.
It is therefore important to keep two things in mind at all times:
First, you should always be conscious of your long-term goals, your values and norms, so that you can align all your actions with them. You should always know for exactly which target you’re aiming.
Because if you don’t know what you’re aiming for, you simply become the passive pawn in another person’s game.
Secondly,  <story> You should form as concrete a mental picture of what you’re about to do as possible: one which sets out exactly what should be achieved. You should visualize how you’re going to aim your bow so that you hit the bullseye.
This kind of visual anticipation works in all possible situations. Most competitive sportsmen, for example, are well-practiced in visualizing how they will leave the starting block, complete a perfect stretchand finish in first place.
The same principle is true for an office. First you need a clear mental picture, which can then be translated into concrete actions. </story> 
And as the saying goes, "Better to ask twice than to lose your way once." It’s much more productive to devote time to anticipating an action and visualizing the desired outcome than just plowing on too hastily.If you want to be truly effective, always “put first things first.”If you want to proactively influence your situation in life, and you have a clear goal in mind, you need good habits which will help you translate these aims into actions.
A mission or vision can only become a reality if you really live by it from day to day.
This requires a significant degree of time management. Most time-management techniques work only on increasing efficiency, and not on improving effectiveness. What is more, they very often put strain on relationships, and are actually counterproductive in the long-term.
Most of the time it is sufficient simply to remember the little maxim: "first things first."
"First things first" means rigorously prioritizing: the important things are taken care of, the less important things are put to one side and then delegated or dealt with later.
How can we tell which things are important? The things which are important are those which bring us closer to our final goals, and those which are consistent with our mission statement – our values and our norms.
This therefore does not include those numerous pressing little tasks we are faced with in everyday life. Rather, the important things are those projects and tasks which might not be temporally pressing, but are part of our larger vision and have a considerable effect in the long-term.
In order to be able to dedicate yourself to these crucial tasks, you have to learn when to say yes, and when to say no. Even if we have a burning desire to say yes, we should also be able to say no when the thing we’ve been asked to do contributes nothing to the achievement of our long-term goals.“Think win-win” to get your share of the cake and build lasting relationships at the same time.Most people are intrinsically shaped by the "win-lose" paradigm. They see every situation as a competition, and others as competitors in the battle for the biggest slice of the cake.
The majority of situations in life, however, don’t need to be a competition. There is usually enough cake for everyone, and it is far better when all parties work towards a "win-win" solution.
Because the major disadvantage of the "win-lose" mentality is that when two people of this mentality come up against each other, the situation more often than not becomes a "lose-lose" one. Both parties lose, whilst meanwhile the dog gets the cake, which has been knocked onto the floor in the argument.
Furthermore, it is impossible for a positive relationship to form between two people who are constantly in competition with each other. Being able to build lots of positive relationships with different people is, by contrast, one of the major benefits of the "win-win" way of thinking.
That's because the ability to form good relationships with others is a real asset and the basis of true effectiveness.
The win-win mentality is one which always strives to find a solution which is desirable to all parties. It requires a change in thinking from "I need to make sure I get my piece of the cake" to "There’s enough cake there for everyone."
This means that it is necessary to keep negotiating and communicating until a solution is found which is desirable to all parties. This is not an easy task and requires both sensitivity and patience.
The result, however, is a lasting positive relationship and the creation of mutual trust, from which all parties can profit.Forming stable relationships with others means investing in emotional bank accounts.Each relationship is like a kind of emotional bank account which records exactly how much each person has invested in it.
 <story> The greater the balance, the greater trust exists between the parties.
To this end, you should aim to make regular payments and withdraw money only rarely from the account.
A payment can be, for example, finding a win-win solution, sticking to a promise you made, or really listening empathetically to the other person.
A withdrawal, on the other hand, would be finding a win-lose solution, breaking a promise, or only half-listening to the other person.
Once you have reached the maximum balance in your account, you should aim to understand the needs and mission statement of the other person, and to invest also in these.
That's why, in everyday life, it is vitally important to always keep promises, and to be courteous and sensitive even in small matters while, above all, remaining loyal.
If it happens that you make a withdrawal from the account one time, you should apologize sincerely. People are more than happy to forgive a repentant sinner. Plucking up the courage to admit you were wrong is therefore always worthwhile. </story> If you want to be able to influence others, “seek first to understand, then to be understood.” <story> How much would we trust a doctor who very quickly gave a diagnosis without having really listened to us at all?
How helpful would it be for an optician to merely hand us his own glasses, claiming that since he can see fine with them, they should work for us too?
Though most of us might be critical of such behavior, we actually behave very similarly in everyday life, particularly in conversation with others. We don’t really listen, and instead formulate our response extremely quickly. We tend to project ourselves onto the other person and look for solutions we can "prescribe" for them. </story> 
In general, such advice is seldom well-received, since we are only likely to trust the judgment of another if we feel they really understand our situation.
If you want to be good with people, and to be respected as a listener and as an imparter of advice, you need to develop the skill of empathetic listening.
This in itself necessitates a change of paradigm: not "I’m listening so that I can provide an answer," but rather "I’m listening so that I can really understand the person next to me."
Empathetic listening means active listening: repeating back to the person what they’ve said in your own words, mirroring their emotions and helping them to structure their own thought processes.
It takes time and effort to master this skill at the beginning, but the rewards will be numerous later on. If you learn to listen in a truly empathetic way, you will notice that many people are quite prepared to open up and to consider your opinions and advice. They merely require a good, appreciative listener to be able to do so.“Synergize” by treating others with openness and respect.Examples of synergy can be seen all around us in nature. The contributions of many add up to a total which far exceeds the contribution of any individual.
A person who is truly effective will make use of this principle in their personal and work life.
Synergy with others means valuing differences and being open with one another. Each of us sees the world through an individual perspective. Each of us has particular strengths. And it is possible, through the use of shared resources, to compensate for individual weaknesses.
Achieving this requires you to see your interactions with others as an adventure. The outcome of that adventure may not be completely under your control, but you should still embrace it with complete openness.
This requires a significant degree of self-confidence on the part of the individual, as well as the conviction that the combined contribution of each party can lead to something great, something far better than could be produced by an individual.
When people really synergize, they listen to each other, they put themselves in each other’s shoes and they use the contributions of others as a springboard to create something great.
For this atmosphere of cooperation and trust to exist, the individuals in a group have to be very mature, prepared to treat each other with respect and to invest in their working relationships.
The results are almost impossible to predict, and synergetic work can often come close to chaos. But you mustn’t let yourself be discouraged by this. Instead, you must focus on the fact that, by the end, you will have reached a result which would have been unachievable by an individual.Final summaryThe key message of this book:
Being truly effective means being clear about what it is you want to achieve, and being proactive in putting your goals into action. This is best achieved by striving to synergize with others, to invest in lasting relationships and to maintain a balanced lifestyle.
This book in blinks provides the answers to the following questions:
How can you make lasting changes to yourself and stay productive on a long-term basis?

In order to change, you have to address your character and not your behavior.
Working on character involves aligning personal paradigms with universal principles.
“Sharpen the saw” if you want to keep sawing.

How can you achieve great things and shape the world around you effectively?

“Be proactive" and take control of your own fate.
“Begin with the end in mind" – if you want to achieve something, you need long-term goals and a mission statement.
In order to attain your goals, you need to visualize the outcome of every action as clearly as possible before doing it.
If you want to be truly effective, always “put first things first.”

How can you integrate and synergize successfully with others?

“Think win-win” to get your share of the cake and build lasting relationships at the same time.
Forming stable relationships with others means investing in emotional bank accounts.
If you want to be able to influence others, “seek first to understand, then to be understood.”
“Synergize” by treating others with openness and respect.
What’s in it for me: Get the basics you need to start and run a business.The Chinese philosopher Lao Zi once said: “A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.” But often when we want to start some larger-than-life task, like our own business venture, we get so caught up planning 50 steps that we skip over the very first one.
That’s why in these blinks, you won’t get in-depth analyses of the management tools you need to start and run a business. Instead, you’ll get just enough to take that first step. Among other things, you’ll learn how to pitch for funding and survive even if you don’t get it. You’ll understand how companies can position themselves successfully and create powerful brands.
You’ll also discover:

why you shouldn’t be afraid of hiring someone smarter than you,
how IBM succeeded in hijacking the computer market from the leading brand, and
what makes some products so popular they’re contagious.

Entrepreneurs should strive to make meaning, not money.Many people dream of starting their own company, and often their motivation stems from the desire to get rich quick.
But this is the wrong way to go about it: entrepreneurship should be about making meaning, not making money. And you make meaning when you create a service or product that somehow contributes to the world becoming a better place.
And not only does making meaning help the world, it’s also a critical element in your company’s success. It’s far more difficult to be an A-list entrepreneur if you don’t make meaning. Both you and your employees will be far more motivated if money isn’t your primary goal.
So how can you create this meaning?
Formulate a short, powerful mantra that reflects it.  <story> A mantra is a simple, frequently repeated statement that reminds the employees why the company exists. For example, Nike’s mantra is “Authentic athletic performance” and Disney’s is “Fun family entertainment.” </story> 
 <story> You may think that a company’s mission statement already performs the same function, but a mantra is different in that it is shorter, more direct and more memorable.
For example, Coca-Cola’s mission statement is “The Coca-Cola Company exists to benefit and refresh everyone it touches.” That’s a mouthful. But if we formulate a hypothetical mantra for the same company, we could come up with something like “Refresh the world,” which is much catchier and easier to keep in mind. </story> Don't just wing it when it comes to business: you need to set milestones, test assumptions and define tasks.Many start-ups operate in a state of constant chaos: no one really knows where the company is going or how much progress it’s making.
Don’t let this happen to your company. Instead, use the MAT framework: define Milestones, Assumptions and Tasks.
First, identify your milestones so that you can see how you’re progressing toward them. These milestones should be the most important events on your planned road to success, i.e., finalizing key deliverables or making a crucial decision.
For example, the first milestone of a start-up could be getting a "proof of concept" for its product or service, which demonstrates that it’s feasible. Then the next milestone might be completing a functioning prototype, and the one after that is raising funding to build the first batch of products. This means every key event is mapped out in advance.
But of course, it’s not a given that milestones will be reached. You need to be realistic about what business-relevant assumptions you’re making. Therefore you should create a list of assumptions that could affect whether or not you reach your milestones, and then track them regularly to see if they still hold. If not, you need to react.
For example, let’s say you’re opening a tailoring shop, and assume that the textiles will cost you $1,000 a month. Then your suppliers tell you that they’re raising their prices, and the textiles will actually cost you $2,000 a month. Clearly you need to either find new suppliers or raise your prices.
Finally, list the tasks that will help you achieve your milestones – tasks that are required to produce, sell, and support your product. These could be something peripheral but nevertheless crucial, like renting office space or paying your employee insurance policies. You need to ensure this is taken care of.Your company’s positioning should tell the customer what you do in a clear and personal way.One area where start-up organizations frequently falter is positioning, which means the way in which customers perceive the company. But positioning need not be complicated. The most important thing is that it clearly answers one question: “What do you do?” Find a great answer to that question and communicate it to the market – giving the customer a reason to buy your product.
So what do you need to do to achieve great positioning?
The first stage of positioning is to make sure that your mission is understood and believed by customers. The core of your business should connect to their core needs, so that they see that your company exists precisely in order to fulfill those needs.
 <story> Your positioning should also be formulated so that it speaks specifically to your target group of customers. For example, let’s say your company sells security software for banks. Which one of the following two positioning statements would you rather go with: “Increasing the security of websites,” or “Reducing the risk of online-transaction fraud for commercial banks”?
Clearly, the latter is far more effective at speaking to the target customer. </story> 
 <story> A second factor in successful positioning is that it should feel personally relevant to the individual customer. For example, if you’ve invented an innovative new kind of sunblock, you shouldn’t be saying, “Can reduce global cancer rates by up to three percent,” but instead, “Prevents you from getting melanoma.” </story> 
The latter statement makes it immediately clear to the customer why she needs it.Pitching should tell the audience what you do and why it’s important.Everyone knows that no entrepreneur can succeed if she’s the only person excited about her idea. This is why a key part of entrepreneurship is pitching: presenting your business idea so that others get excited about it too.
To pitch properly, you need to keep a few things in mind.
First, always start by explaining what your company does. It’s the first thing the audience will want to know, and they won’t be able to focus on anything else until they’ve figured it out. Keep the introduction short and to the point, however, so as not to overwhelm the audience. For example: “We sell software,” or “We teach underprivileged kids.”
Second, always clarify to the audience why what you’re saying is important. Remember, the audience lacks your background and expertise, so the significance of what you’re saying may be lost on them.
For example,  <story> If you’re an expert in audio technology, you might proudly proclaim: “Our hearing aids use digital signal processing,” but this won’t mean anything to an audience of investors.
To avoid this communication gap, when preparing your pitch always ask yourself “So what?” after everything you want to say. Then prepare to answer that “so what” using a few clarifying, vivid examples.
So again, if you want to say: “Our hearing aids use digital signal processing,” ask yourself “So what?”
Your response could be: “Because our hearing aids make sounds clearer.”
Then use a real life example to really make the matter crystal clear: “So if you’re at a party with a lot of ambient noise, you’ll still be able to hear your conversation partner perfectly.”
This is a benefit anyone can understand. </story> Every start-up should prepare a business plan.There’s more than a grain of truth to the age-old saying, “If you don't plan to succeed you plan to fail.” Traditionally, firms use the business plan: a formal written document outlining goals and the methods for reaching them.
Because the business plan is such a formal document, writing one may seem like a useless chore for a start-up contending with a ton of unknowns. But in fact, it does have several benefits.
First and foremost: you will be asked for one by your stakeholders, though they may not read it. Don’t even dream of attracting funding from potential investors without a business plan.
What’s more, the act of preparing the business plan carries certain benefits too.
For one, your team has to work together to write it. This can help them become a more cohesive unit, or, on the other hand, may make it clear that you don’t want to work with these people ever again – thus saving you a lot of pain later on.
What’s more, writing the plan can often highlight problems and future issues that would not come up without formalized planning. You may, for example, find that two people on your team are actually doing the same thing, or that no one has thought about how to deliver customer service.
So what’s the key to writing a good business plan? Just focus on the executive summary: a four-paragraph précis of the document. This is the first thing people will read, and if it’s not stellar, they won’t go any further.
A good executive summary clearly and concisely explains what problem you’re solving and how you plan to do it, as well as showcasing your business model and the “magic” in your product or service.
Once your executive summary is ready, perform this simple test to gauge its quality: print it and read it. If it sparks an interest in you to read on, then it’s in good shape.If you can’t get external funding for your company, focus on generating cash flow.Many start-ups owe their existence to investors who fund them in the early stages. But you can also build a start-up by bootstrapping: running it without any external investment.
To succeed at bootstrapping, you need to focus primarily on generating cash flow, or getting money into your bank account. After all, you need it to pay your bills, rent, salaries, and so forth.
This means you should prioritize sales and projects according to how quickly you’ll get paid for them. For example, if a customer wants to commission a six-month website design project from you but your company is so strapped for cash it will be bankrupt in eight weeks, you need to either decline or demand part of the payment up front.
Another way to improve your cash-flow situation is to try to postpone the outflows. To achieve this, negotiate with your suppliers for better payment terms so that you don’t have to immediately pay them in full.
If you want to generate cash flow, you can’t wait for your product to be perfected before selling it. Otherwise you’ll go bankrupt waiting for all the glitches to be fixed.
Don’t think, “Fix it, fix it, fix it, ship it,” but instead, “ship it, fix it, ship it, fix it, ship it.”
You’ll get immediate cash flow from sales and receive feedback on your product from real customers.
The downside is that the quality of your product will inevitably be suboptimal, and this could damage your company’s image in the market. To negate this effect, try to first sell your product in a small, isolated geographical area or market. This way at least the damage to your reputation will be contained.
Remember, however, that the one thing you can’t fix after shipping is product safety. This needs to be top-notch before even the first tentative sale, because safety issues can cause irreparable damage to your reputation.To build a great team, hire people better than yourself and fire those who don’t perform.No matter what industry you’re in, you can’t run a successful company without a great team of people behind it. So how do you ensure that you build this team?
First of all, never be afraid of hiring someone who’s better than you. This is essential for success.
Just think, if everyone in the company is only willing to hire someone less able than themselves, the team will inevitably fill up with poor performers. To paraphrase Steve Jobs, if B players hire C players and C players hire D players, in no time at all you’ll find your company filled with Z players.
Instead, you have to be humble enough to admit that there are people more capable than you and you must have the self-confidence to hire them anyway.
Second, you must identify people in your team who aren’t performing and get rid of them.
This may seem harsh, but you simply can’t afford to keep them around. Every employee comes at a cost in resources like salary, office space and management time, and all these are wasted if you’re directing them at the wrong person. You need to remedy these situations quickly.
So how can you identify low-performers?
When you hire a new employee, set personal milestones for them and define a review period during which you’ll assess their performance in relation to these milestones.
For example, if you hire a new salesperson, her milestones could include successfully completing training, developing a client database and making the first ten sales calls.
The initial review period should be around 90 days so that both the employee and the company get to know each other well enough to decide whether or not to continue.If you enter into a partnership, make sure it produces a tangible financial benefit.Start-ups can’t remain start-ups forever – they either grow or fail. And one of the tactics that can help your start-up grow is making partnerships with other businesses.
Let’s look at a few factors that make your partnerships successful.
First, be selective.  <story> Only accept partnerships that will positively affect your financial forecast. This means your partner has to enable you to, for example, reduce costs, accelerate product development or enter a new market. In other words, the benefit has to be tangible.
For example, in its early days, Apple partnered with the Aldus Corporation, which had produced a desktop publishing program called PageMaker. Apple needed a “killer application” that would run on its computers, whereas Aldus needed a channel through which to sell its software. As a result of the partnership, both companies flourished. </story> 
But even if the partnership makes financial sense, getting two organizations to collaborate is no easy task. This is why you need to find a champion within your company who will be solely responsible for making the partnership work. If everyone only feels partially responsible, nothing will ever get done. The champion should be someone who truly believes in the potential of the partnership and has full authority to get all the departments in the company to deliver what is needed.
Lastly, even though a partnership should be beneficial to both parties, it’s still important that there’s a plan for getting out of it if necessary. Circumstances change and should the time come, both you and your partner need to be clear about how you’ll end the collaboration. Acknowledging this from the start will help both parties to be more at ease over the course of the partnership.To build a brand, make your product so great it spreads like a virus.Every founder dreams of her start-up one day becoming an internationally recognized household name. So how can you brand your product so that it becomes a legend?
Your main focus should lie in creating products that are contagious – people should be infected with the enthusiasm to try them.
Creating such products is no easy feat, but there are a few elements that contagious products tend to share.
First,  <story> Contagious products are cool. The iPod, for example, was successful partly because it was the first cool Mp3 player.
Second, contagious products are effective, or excellent at what they do. The TiVo, for example, became an iconic digital video recorder because it allowed you to record your favorite TV shows so effortlessly. If it had been a pain to use, no one would ever have even heard of it.
Third, contagious products are distinctive, or noticeably different from the competition. Consider the Hummer, for example – you wouldn’t confuse it with any other car. </story> 
But even if you build contagious products or services it won’t be enough  <story> To create a recognizable brand. You also need to build a community of users around them. These communities provide support to users and make the experience of using the product or service a more satisfying one.
For example, Coca-Cola’s loyal fans started a Facebook fan page that gained over one million followers. </story> 
If you’re not lucky enough to have your users spontaneously form a community, you can expedite the process by finding your most enthusiastic customers and asking them to build the community for you. They’ll probably be happy to help, especially if you give them a budget for promotion and community events, and also assign someone from your company to be your representative.Keep your eyes open for unexpected opportunities. <story> You may never have heard of it, but once upon a time, a company called Univac led the computing market. But the company made a crucial error of judgment: it saw its computers as sophisticated tools to be used by scientists only, and therefore only produced machines suitable for complicated scientific calculations. At this time, however, another company realized that businesses were also interested in the potential of computing, and so it began building machines targeted at this new consumer market. Though the name Univac is long forgotten, you may have heard of this second company. It’s IBM.
So what’s the lesson?
Always keep an open mind and look for non-obvious customers and uses for your products. </story>  When your product is used by customers you didn’t expect or in a way you didn’t think of, don’t panic, but instead take advantage of this new chance to grow. Don’t make the same mistake Univac made.
Another key asset is a willingness to shift focus if your “obvious” target customers are hard to reach. For example, one obvious target customer for any start-up is a prestigious, name-brand company that could then work as a reference for future sales. The trouble is that such companies tend to only buy from other established companies, and a start-up can wear itself out trying to convince them otherwise.
If your dream customer doesn’t see why your product is so great, just forget about them and instead target customers who are willing to try your product.Final SummaryThe key message in this book:
Companies should be started because the founders want to make meaning, not because they want to make money. Focus on generating cash flow and pursuing unexpected market opportunities, and you can thrive even without external funding.
Actionable advice:
Make your introductions attention grabbing.
In these blinks you found out that the most important part of any business plan is the executive summary, because that’s what people read first. But in fact, the same holds true for many documents and presentations. Whether you’re trying to sell your product or pitch to investors, ensure you come out with your guns blazing from the start, or you’ll lose their attention. This means you should use your most shocking facts and compelling anecdotes at the get-go – they’re no use if no one’s awake to read them.Start-ups need to be managed differently from established companies.In the first three blinks, you'll discover what the main goal is that a start-up should pursue.
Traditional management consists of two components: developing plans and overseeing the people executing them.
A manager creates a plan, sets milestones, and delegates tasks to her employees, guiding them to ensure they hit their milestones on time.
This management strategy works in established companies that have been around long enough to know what worked in the past and therefore what could work in the future.
Start-ups are different, though: they can’t predict their own future because they have no past, don’t know what their customers want, and don’t know which approaches are best for finding customers or creating a sustainable business. To find out what could work, they must stay flexible. To adopt fixed plans with set milestones or rely on long-term market forecasts would be to delude themselves.
Nevertheless, many founders do use corporate-management tools such as milestone plans and long-term market forecasts. They act as if they are preparing a space rocket for liftoff, tinkering with it for years and only launching it when they think it’s perfect. In reality, managing a start-up is more like driving a jeep across unstable and shifting terrain, where the founders must constantly change direction and respond quickly to unexpected obstacles and dead-ends.
However, start-ups shouldn’t abandon planning completely to adopt a chaotic “just do it” mindset either. Driving chaotically is not going to get you anywhere; someone has to be at the wheel to make intelligent decisions about which way to go.
A start-up’s management team should try to maintain an overview of their situation and keep their company steered toward its overall goal. Hence, they need to find the right metrics to measure whether their journey is leading them in the right direction.
Start-ups need to be managed differently from established companies.The purpose of a start-up is to find a sustainable business model.The main goal of any start-up is to find a business model that is profitable and sustainable.
The most intricate and detailed milestone plans, the most efficient execution of those plans or even the undivided and devoted attention of the press won’t help the slightest without a sustainable business model.
If you want your company to be more than just a temporary pet project that will sooner or later dwindle and die, you must find a way to acquire customers and earn money by serving them. Say you want to build your business around online kilt-knitting instructions. Ask yourself, does anyone want these instructions? Is there any way to make money out of them? If the answer in both cases is no, find something else that people do want and will be willing to pay for.
Thus, the one and only goal for your start-up is to find a sustainable business model, one that works today and can work in the future as well. In practice, this means finding out which products your potential customers want and how to turn their desires into constant revenues.
The main responsibility of any start-up’s management should be to focus the whole company, including everything being done on a day-to-day basis, on reaching this one main goal. The faster a start-up finds its way to a sustainable business model, the likelier it is to succeed.
The purpose of a start-up is to find a sustainable business model.Find your sustainable business model through validated learning.In order to find a sustainable business model, start-ups have to discover what their customers want and how to make money from it. They have to find the right product for the right people and understand how to sell it to them.
This doesn’t mean coming up with a great plan from the start. Rather, it requires a process of constant learning: ideally validated learning, meaning learning through a scientific approach.
 <story> To begin the process of validated learning, you must come up with hypotheses about whether and how certain products will be successful in a given market. For example, “US customers will be willing to purchase shoes online.”
Such fundamental hypotheses have to be tested, and only if they are validated by talking to customers can the start-up know it’s on the right track toward finding a sustainable business model.
Don’t use questionnaires or fictional customers though; instead, talk to real customers in a realistic environment. The most reliable way to find out whether people will buy your product is to offer it to them and see how they respond. </story> 
 <story> Take the success story of Zappos: it started with the simple hypothesis that people would be willing to buy shoes online. To test this idea, the company took photographs of shoes in shoe stores and displayed the photographs in a fake web shop. When people actually tried to buy the shoes online, Zappos saw that their hypothesis was valid.
Through this approach, the foundation was laid for one of the most successful business models of the last decade. </story> 
Find your sustainable business model through validated learning.The leap-of-faith assumptions: test your value and growth hypotheses.Part of developing a product is the leap of faith: a founder believes in the future success of the product she wants to create, even though there’s no proof for this yet.
To quickly close the gap between believing and knowing, every founder should formulate and test two fundamental assumptions:
The value hypothesis assumes that a product will deliver value to its customers, that is, that early adopters will find and embrace the product.
The growth hypothesis states that the product will not only appeal to the small group of early adopters but will also find a bigger market later.
Both assumptions must be tested as soon as possible. Only if they can be validated is it worth investing the time and effort into developing the product.
 <story> Take a look at Facebook: they managed to validate both the value and growth hypothesis at a very early stage when the social network had only a few users.
First of all, the registered users were very active in the network. More than half logged in at least once a day – impressive proof for the value hypothesis.
Second, Facebook had sensational user-activation rates, meaning it gained market penetration very quickly. In colleges where Facebook had been introduced, three quarters of all students signed up within one month – without the company having spent a penny on marketing. Thus, the growth hypothesis was proven as well.
Such impressive data made investors strong believers in the future success of this new social network, leading them to invest millions at a very early stage. </story> 
The leap-of-faith assumptions: test your value and growth hypotheses.Develop a minimal viable product to test your idea in the market.Many founders spend too much time working on a product in isolation, without knowing whether there are actually any real customers for the product.
If you want to create a sustainable business, you must find out as quickly as possible whether there is any demand for your product.
The quickest and easiest way to get real-world customer feedback on your idea is to create a minimal version of the product. This minimal viable product (MVP) should be as simple as possible and should contain only what is needed to give the customers a realistic experience of how your product would work – just enough to draw useful feedback from them.
The MVP can be a simple bare-bones prototype of your product, or even a smoke test: pretend to sell a fake product. Uploading pictures of shoes to a web shop, even though you cannot yet sell any, is a prime example.
 <story> Take the founders of Dropbox. They knew that developing their idea into a product would take a lot of time, so they chose a simple and creative way to validate their hypothesis that there was demand for a new and user-friendly data-synchronising service: they created a video presenting their idea.
The founders had assumed there was a demand for such a product, and they were right: within one night, 75,000 people had signed up to their waiting list, and the Dropbox team concluded they were on the right track. Thus, they could confidently start developing the actual product. </story> 
Similarly, every start-up should first find out whether there’s an actual demand for their product before they start building it.
Develop a minimal viable product to test your idea in the market.Build, measure, learn – as fast and as often as possible.In the search for a sustainable business model, the top priority is learning: every start-up has to learn which products to build and how to earn money from them.
This can’t happen if you’re out of touch with the real world. You need to get out there, show your product to customers, gather their feedback and then learn from it.
To facilitate this, set up so-called BML loops. BML signifies the cycle build-measure-learn:
First you build a simple version of your product, like a prototype or a smoke-test.
Second, you take this product to its actual market and gather customer feedback. By collecting quantitative data from this experiment, you measure interest in the product; for instance, how many people clicked the purchase button and tried to buy shoes from your fake web shop.
When measuring, make sure you don’t just look at the numbers but also talk to your customers. If you want to understand your data, you should learn about the individual impressions and opinions of your customers as well.
What you learn in one cycle should then be used to conceptualize and build a new, optimized product, which brings you into the next BML cycle. This process is then repeated until you find a sustainable business model.
It’s important to be fast here. Each BML loop helps you improve your product and gives you valuable insights about what your customers want. The more loops you can go through, the more likely it is you will find your sustainable business model.
Build, measure, learn – as fast and as often as possible.Use split-tests to optimize your product.When developing and improving a product, start-ups have to distinguish between value and waste: they must find out which features are valuable for their customers and which aren’t.
Valuable features are those that help the company attract more customers or increase its revenue.
Features that don’t do either are wasteful – even if the founders or engineers think they’re the greatest thing ever.
 <story> A clever way of distinguishing between value and waste is split-testing. Whenever you consider adding a feature or changing an existing one, create two versions of your product: one with the new feature and one without it. By testing both versions, you’ll soon see which one is more appealing to customers.
The first companies that used this technique were mail-order businesses. For example, to find out whether a new catalogue layout would increase orders, they printed two versions of it: 50 percent of their customers got the old design, and 50 percent got a new one. The catalogues were identical in every other way and the customers were split randomly, so the companies simply had to compare how many orders were placed by each group. This data answered the question of whether the new design was an improvement or not. </story> 
In the same spirit, any start-up can test every possible change before actually implementing it. Want to know whether your website works better in red than in blue? Why not create two test versions of it and track customer click-rates for a couple of days?
Any change you wish to make to your product should be tested with this semi-scientific approach before you actually implement it.
Use split-tests to optimize your product.To find the right business model for your company, you usually have to pivot.Many start-ups believe in the popular myth that the key to founding a successful company is perseverance and an iron will: a heroic founder has a brilliant idea and fights through lots of setbacks until the idea finally becomes a hit.
But this way of thinking leads most start-ups into the so-called land of the living dead. Like mindless zombies, they just can’t take a hint and will keep working hard to sell a product that the market simply doesn’t want.
To avoid this, you should keep asking yourself how you need to change your product to improve it and help it find its market.
Also, you should periodically ask yourself whether a pivot might be in order – a fundamental change of course.
A pivot can take many shapes, such as: redefining the core value or your product; choosing to pursue a different customer segment and; changing your main sales channel.
A main characteristic of a pivot is that the core assumptions behind the start-up have changed, and therefore new hypotheses must be tested.
Deciding to pivot can be tough, and hence start-ups will often avoid and postpone making this decision. This is why it can be beneficial to hold pivot meetings once per month. In these meetings, you take an honest look at the data you’ve gathered and ask yourself whether you might be a zombie in need of a pivot.
 <story> Many start-ups had to pivot a couple of times before finally becoming successful businesses. Take Groupon: they started as a platform for activism and fundraising, and only later turned into the daily deals platform they’re known as today. </story> 
To find the right business model for your company, you usually have to pivot.
 Every start-up should initially focus on one engine of growth.A fundamental part of any business model is an engine of growth that ensures the company does not stagnate.
There are three different kinds of growth engines:
The sticky engine works by retaining existing customers who already generate a constant stream of revenue. The focus is not to win new customers by investing in marketing but rather to make current customers use the product even more often by offering new features or great service.
The viral engine works by getting existing customers to take care of the company’s marketing. Awareness of the product spreads among your target customers by word-of-mouth. This can save you a lot of marketing expenditure, so you should make it as easy as possible for customers to engage in this kind of viral marketing.
A famous example of a viral engine of growth is Hotmail’s automatic email signature: “P.S. Get your free e-mail at Hotmail.” </story> 
Finally, a paid engine works by investing into marketing, for example through paid online advertising. Of course, this is only sustainable if existing customers bring in enough revenues to ensure the costs per user acquisition are lower than user lifetime value.
In general, you can engage all three engines of growth at the same time, but it’s often wise to focus on only one of them at first so that it picks up speed as quickly as possible.
Focusing on one engine of growth also makes it easier to assess the success of new features: if they help the growth engine gain speed, they’re valuable; if not, they’re waste.
Every start-up should initially focus on one engine of growth.Vanity metrics are often flattering but misleading – they won’t help you find a sustainable business model.No start-up can find a sustainable business model without occasionally pausing to get directions, and these directions are derived from examining the right metrics.
To gauge whether you’ve made any progress toward your long-term goals, you need to examine the data you’ve gathered along the way.
Unfortunately, many start-ups give in to the temptation of using vanity metrics: flattering but useless or even harmful metrics that make a company look good but don’t help bring it closer to its goals.
 <story> Start-ups relying on vanity metrics are effectively looking into the business equivalent of a slimming mirror, which makes it hard to face actual problems and fix them.
For instance, it may be flattering to get a lot of media attention and Facebook fans, but never make the mistake of interpreting these signs as success. They don’t pay the bills, and you should not waste your energy trying to impact such meaningless metrics.
Other vanity metrics could be the hours of work you’ve already put into a product or the number of milestones you’ve accomplished. These numbers can (but don’t necessarily) have anything to do with the success of your start-up. Hence, the goal should never be to maximize them. Even if someone works 100-hour weeks, it’s still possible that those hours are wasted on something that’s useless from the point of view of long-term success. </story> 
To be successful, you must find a sustainable business model and grow a base of customers who use your product – and you can do neither if you’re fixated on the wrong metrics.
Vanity metrics are often flattering but misleading – they won’t help you find a sustainable business model.Every start-up has to define its core metrics and analyze them properly. Defining the right metrics to track and continuously evaluating them is crucial for any start-up. Only by seeing the metrics improve will you know you’re on the way towards your long-term goal of finding a sustainable business model.
The right core metrics differ from start-up to start-up, but often they’re things like increases in number of paying customers, average session length per customer, and number of recommendations generated per, say, one thousand customers.
Each start-up has to find its own right metrics to give it direction and a realistic view of its progress.
When analyzing data, it can be helpful to use the so-called cohort analysis. Instead of simply looking at how the revenues or user base have grown in general, compare how new customers behave compared to old ones.
Say one of your core metrics is your recommendation rate. To understand how it advances, you should examine the following factors: On average, how often did customers who signed up six months ago recommend your product to their friends?; What about customers who signed up four months ago?; Two months ago?
By comparing cohorts (in this case, groups of users who signed up at different times) and their respective recommendation rates, you can see whether you’re advancing towards your goal. Only if the metric is improving are you progressing; otherwise, you’re stagnating.
Every start-up has to define its core metrics and analyze them properly. Final summaryThe key message in this book is:
Start-ups should use a semi-scientific approach to test their core assumptions and then build a sustainable business model on the validated hypotheses. They should develop product prototypes quickly and then continuously refine them by gathering customer feedback and going through build-measure-learn loops.
The questions this book answered:
Which main goal should a start-up pursue and how?

Start-ups need to be managed differently from established companies.
The purpose of a start-up is to find a sustainable business model.
Find your sustainable business model through validated learning.

How can start-ups find the right product and business model?

The leap-of-faith assumptions: test your value and growth hypotheses.
Develop a minimal viable product to test your idea in the market.
Build, measure, learn – as fast and as often as possible.
To find the right business model for you company, you usually have to pivot.

How can start-ups find their engine of growth and how can they analyze the right metrics?

Every start-up should initially focus on one engine of growth.
Vanity metrics are often flattering but misleading– they won’t help you find a sustainable business model.
Every start-up has to define its core metrics and analyze them properly.
Of two minds: how our behavior is determined by two different systems – one automatic and the other considered.There is a compelling drama going on in our minds, a filmlike plot between two main characters with twists, dramas and tensions. These two characters are the impulsive, automatic, intuitive System 1, and the thoughtful, deliberate, calculating System 2. As they play off against each other, their interactions determine how we think, make judgments and decisions, and act.
System 1 is the part of our brain that operates intuitively and suddenly, often without our conscious control. You can experience this system at work when you hear a very loud and unexpected sound. What do you do? You probably immediately and automatically shift your attention toward the sound. That’s System 1.
This system is a legacy of our evolutionary past: there are inherent survival advantages in being able to make such rapid actions and judgments.
System 2 is what we think of when we visualize the part of the brain responsible for our individual decision-making, reasoning and beliefs. It deals with conscious activities of the mind such as self-control, choices and more deliberate focus of attention.
For instance,  <story> Imagine you’re looking for a woman in a crowd. Your mind deliberately focuses on the task: it recalls characteristics of the person and anything that would help locate her. This focus helps eliminate potential distractions, and you barely notice other people in the crowd. If you maintain this focused attention, you might spot her within a matter of minutes, whereas if you’re distracted and lose focus, you’ll have trouble finding her. </story> 
As we'll see in the following blinks, the relationship between these two systems determines how we behave.The lazy mind: how laziness can lead to errors and affect our intelligence.To see how the two systems work, try solving this famous bat-and-ball problem:
A bat and ball cost $1.10. The bat costs one dollar more than the ball. How much does the ball cost?
The price that most likely came to your mind, $0.10, is a result of the intuitive and automatic System 1, and it’s wrong! Take a second and do the math now.
Do you see your mistake? The correct answer is $0.05.
What happened was that your impulsive System 1 took control and automatically answered by relying on intuition. But it answered too fast.
Usually, when faced with a situation it can’t comprehend, System 1 calls on System 2 to work out the problem, but in the bat-and-ball problem, System 1 is tricked. It perceives the problem as simpler than it is, and incorrectly assumes it can handle it on its own.
The issue the bat-and-ball problem exposes is our innate mental laziness. When we use our brain, we tend to use the minimum amount of energy possible for each task. This is known as the law of least effort. Because checking the answer with System 2 would use more energy, our mind won’t do it when it thinks it can just get by with System 1.
This laziness is unfortunate, because using System 2 is an important aspect of our intelligence. Research shows that practicing System-2 tasks, like focus and self-control, lead to higher intelligence scores. The bat-and-ball problem illustrates this, as our minds could have checked the answer by using System 2 and thereby avoided making this common error.
By being lazy and avoiding using System 2, our mind is limiting the strength of our intelligence.Autopilot: why we are not always in conscious control of our thoughts and actions. <story> What do you think when you see the word fragment “SO_P”? Probably nothing. What if you first consider the word “EAT”? Now, when you look again at the word “SO_P,” you would probably complete it as “SOUP.” This process is known as priming.
We’re primed when exposure to a word, concept or event causes us to summon related words and concepts. If you had seen the word “SHOWER” instead of “EAT” above, you probably would’ve completed the letters as “SOAP.” </story> 
Such priming not only affects the way we think but also the way we act.  <story> Just as the mind is affected by hearing certain words and concepts, the body can be affected as well. A great example of this can be found in a study in which participants primed with words associated with being elderly, such as “Florida” and “wrinkle,” responded by walking at a slower pace than usual. </story> 
Incredibly, the priming of actions and thoughts is completely unconscious; we do it without realizing.
What priming therefore shows is that despite what many argue, we are not always in conscious control of our actions, judgments and choices. We are instead being constantly primed by certain social and cultural conditions.
For example,  <story> Research done by Kathleen Vohs proves that the concept of money primes individualistic actions. People primed with the idea of money - for example, through being exposed to images of money - act more independently and are less willing to be involved with, depend on or accept demands from others. One implication of Vohs’s research is that living in a society filled with triggers that prime money could nudge our behavior away from altruism. </story> 
Priming, just like other societal elements, can influence an individual's thoughts and therefore choices, judgment and behavior – and these reflect back into the culture and heavily affect the kind of society we all live in.Snap judgments: how the mind makes quick choices, even when it lacks enough information to make a rational decision. <story> Imagine you meet someone named Ben at a party, and you find him easy to talk to. Later, someone asks if you know anybody who might want to contribute to their charity. You think of Ben, even though the only thing you know about him is that he is easy to talk to.
In other words, you liked one aspect of Ben’s character, and so you assumed you would like everything else about him. We often approve or disapprove of a person even when we know little about them. </story> 
Our mind’s tendency to oversimplify things without sufficient information often leads to judgment errors. This is called exaggerated emotional coherence, also known as the halo effect: positive feelings about Ben’s approachability cause you to place a halo on Ben, even though you know very little about him.
But this is not the only way our minds take shortcuts when making judgments.
There is also confirmation bias, which is the tendency for people to agree with information that supports their previously held beliefs, as well as to accept whatever information is suggested to them. </story> 
This can be shown  <story> If we ask the question, “Is James friendly?” Studies have shown that, faced with this question but no other information, we’re very likely to consider James friendly – because the mind automatically confirms the suggested idea.
The halo effect and confirmation bias both occur because our minds are eager to make quick judgments. But this often leads to mistakes, because we don’t always have enough data to make an accurate call. Our minds rely on false suggestions and oversimplifications to fill in the gaps in the data, leading us to potentially wrong conclusions.
Like priming, these cognitive phenomena happen without our conscious awareness and affect our choices, judgments and actions.Heuristics: how the mind uses shortcuts to make quick decisions.Often we find ourselves in situations where we need to make a quick judgment. To help us do this, our minds have developed little shortcuts to help us immediately understand our surroundings. These are called heuristics.
Most of the time, these processes are very helpful, but the trouble is that our minds tend to overuse them. Applying them in situations for which they aren’t suited can lead us to make mistakes. To get a better understanding of what heuristics are and what mistakes they can lead to, we can examine two of their many types: the substitution heuristic and the availability heuristic.
The substitution heuristic is where we answer an easier question than the one that was actually posed.
 <story> Take this question, for example: “That woman is a candidate for sheriff. How successful will she be in office?” We automatically substitute the question we’re supposed to answer with an easier one, like, “Does this woman look like someone who will make a good sheriff?”
This heuristic means that instead of researching the candidate’s background and policies, we merely ask ourselves the far easier question of whether this woman matches our mental image of a good sheriff. Unfortunately, if the woman does not fit our image of a sheriff, we could reject her – even if she has years of crime-fighting experience that make her the ideal candidate. </story> 
Next, there is the availability heuristic, which is where you overestimate the probability of something you hear often or find easy to remember.
For example,  <story> Strokes cause many more deaths than accidents do, but one study found that 80 percent of respondents considered an accidental death a more likely fate. This is because we hear of accidental deaths more in the media, and because they make a stronger impression on us; we remember horrific accidental deaths more readily than deaths from strokes, and so we may react inappropriately to these dangers. </story> No head for numbers: why we struggle to understand statistics and make avoidable mistakes because of it.How can you make predictions on whether certain things will happen?
One effective way is to keep the base rate in mind. This refers to a statistical base, which other statistics rely on. For example,  <story> Imagine a large taxi company has 20 percent yellow cabs and 80 percent red cabs. That means the base rate for yellow taxi cabs is 20 percent and the base rate for red cabs is 80 percent. If you order a cab and want to guess its color, remember the base rates and you will make a fairly accurate prediction.
We should therefore always remember the base rate when predicting an event, but unfortunately this doesn’t happen. In fact, base-rate neglect is extremely common. </story> 
One of the reasons we find ourselves ignoring the base rate is that we focus on what we expect rather than what is most likely. For example, imagine those cabs again: If you were to see five red cabs pass by, you’d probably start to feel it’s quite likely that the next one will be yellow for a change. But no matter how many cabs of either color go by, the probability that the next cab will be red will still be around 80 percent – and if we remember the base rate we should realize this. But instead we tend to focus on what we expect to see, a yellow cab, and so we will likely be wrong.
Base-rate neglect is a common mistake connected with the wider problem of working with statistics. We also struggle to remember that everything regresses to the mean. This is the acknowledgment that all situations have their average status, and variations from that average will eventually tilt back toward the average.
For example,  <story> If a football striker who averages five goals per month scores ten goals in September, her coach will be ecstatic; but if she then goes on to score around five goals per month for the rest of the year, her coach will probably criticize her for not continuing her “hot streak." The striker wouldn’t deserve this criticism, though, because she is only regressing to the mean! </story> Past imperfect: why we remember events from hindsight rather than from experience.Our minds don’t remember experiences in a straightforward way. We have two different apparatuses, called memory selves, both of which remember situations differently.
First, there is the experiencing self, which records how we feel in the present moment. It asks the question: “How does it feel now?”
Then there is the remembering self, which records how the entire event unfolded after the fact. It asks, “How was it on the whole?”
The experiencing self gives a more accurate account of what occurred, because our feelings during an experience are always the most accurate. But the remembering self, which is less accurate because it registers memories after the situation is finished, dominates our memory.
There are two reasons why the remembering self dominates the experiencing self. The first of these is called duration neglect, where we ignore the total duration of the event in favor of a particular memory from it. Second is the peak-end rule, where we overemphasize what occurs at the end of an event.
 <story> For an example of this dominance of the remembering self, take this experiment, which measured people’s memories of a painful colonoscopy. Before the colonoscopy, the people were put into two groups: the patients in one group were given long, rather drawn-out colonoscopies, while those in the other group were given much shorter procedures, but where the level of pain increased towards the end.
You’d think the most unhappy patients would be those who endured the longer process, as their pain was endured for longer. This was certainly what they felt at the time. During the process, when each patient was asked about the pain, their experiencing self gave an accurate answer: those who had the longer procedures felt worse. However, after the experience, when the remembering self took over, those who went through the shorter process with the more painful ending felt the worst. This survey offers us a clear example of duration neglect, the peak-end rule, and our faulty memories. </story> Mind over matter: how adjusting the focus of our minds can dramatically affect our thoughts and behaviors.Our minds use different amounts of energy depending on the task. When there’s no need to mobilize attention and little energy is needed, we are in a state of cognitive ease. Yet, when our minds must mobilize attention, they use more energy and enter a state of cognitive strain.
These changes in the brain’s energy levels have dramatic effects on how we behave.
In a state of cognitive ease, the intuitive System 1 is in charge of our minds, and the logical and more energy-demanding System 2 is weakened. This means we are more intuitive, creative and happier, yet we’re also more likely to make mistakes.
In a state of cognitive strain, our awareness is more heightened, and so System 2 is put in charge. System 2 is more ready to double-check our judgments than System 1, so although we are far less creative, we will make fewer mistakes.
You can consciously influence the amount of energy the mind uses to get in the right frame of mind for certain tasks. If you want a message to be persuasive, for example, try promoting cognitive ease.
One way to do this is to expose ourselves to repetitive information. If information is repeated to us, or made more memorable, it becomes more persuasive. This is because our minds have evolved to react positively when repeatedly exposed to the same clear messages. When we see something familiar, we enter a state of cognitive ease.
Cognitive strain, on the other hand, helps us succeed at things like statistical problems.
We can get into this state by exposing ourselves to information that is presented to us in a confusing way, for example, via hard-to-read type. Our minds perk up and increase their energy levels in an effort to comprehend the problem, and therefore we are less likely to simply give up.Taking chances: the way probabilities are presented to us affects our judgment of risk.The way we judge ideas and approach problems is heavily determined by the way they are expressed to us. Slight changes to the details or focus of a statement or question can dramatically alter the way we address it.
A great example of this can be found in how we assess risk.
You may think that once we can determine the probability of a risk occurring, everyone will approach it in the same way. Yet, this isn't the case. Even for carefully calculated probabilities, just changing the way the figure is expressed can change how we approach it.
For example, people will consider a rare event as more likely to occur if it’s expressed in terms of relative frequency rather than as a statistical probability.
 <story> In what’s known as the Mr. Jones experiment, two groups of psychiatric professionals were asked if it was safe to discharge Mr. Jones from the psychiatric hospital. The first group were told that patients like Mr. Jones had a “10 percent probability of committing an act of violence,” and the second group were told that “of every 100 patients similar to Mr. Jones, 10 are estimated to commit an act of violence.” Of the two groups, almost twice as many respondents in the second group denied his discharge. </story> 
Another way our attention is distracted from what is statistically relevant is called denominator neglect. This occurs when we ignore plain statistics in favor of vivid mental images that influence our decisions.
 <story> Take these two statements: “This drug protects children from disease X but has a 0.001 percent chance of permanent disfigurement” versus “One of 100,000 children who take this drug will be permanently disfigured.” Even though both statements are equal, the latter statement brings to mind a disfigured child and is much more influential, which is why it would make us less likely to administer the drug. </story> Not robots: why we don't make choices based purely on rational thinking.How do we as individuals make choices?
For a long time, a powerful and influential group of economists suggested that we made decisions based purely on rational argument. They argued that we all make choices according to utility theory, which states that when individuals make decisions, they look only at the rational facts and choose the option with the best overall outcome for them, meaning the most utility.
For example, utility theory would posit this kind of statement:  <story> if you like oranges more than you like kiwis, then you’re also going to take a 10 percent chance of winning an orange over a 10 percent chance of winning a kiwi. </story> 
Seems obvious, right?
The most influential group of economists in this field centered on the Chicago School of Economics and their most famous scholar Milton Friedman. Using utility theory, the Chicago School argued that individuals in the marketplace are ultra-rational decision-makers, whom economist Richard Thaler and lawyer Cass Sunstein later named Econs. As Econs, each individual acts in the same way, valuing goods and services based on their rational needs. What’s more, Econs also value their wealth rationally, weighing only how much utility it provides them.
 <story> So imagine two people, John and Jenny, who both have fortunes of $5 million. According to utility theory, they have the same wealth, meaning they should both be equally happy with their finances.
But what if we complicate things a little? Let’s say that their $5 million fortunes are the end-result of a day at the casino, and the two had vastly different starting points: John walked in with a mere $1 million and quintupled his money, whereas Jenny came in with $9 million that dwindled down to $5 million. Do you still think John and Jenny are equally happy with their $5 million?
Unlikely. Clearly then, there is something more to the way we value things than pure utility.
As we’ll see in the next blink, since we don’t all see utility as rationally as utility theory thinks, we can make strange and seemingly irrational decisions.Gut feeling: why rather than making decisions based solely on rational considerations, we are often swayed by emotional factors.If utility theory doesn’t work, then what does?
One alternative is prospect theory, developed by the author.
Kahneman’s prospect theory challenges utility theory by showing that when we make choices, we don’t always act in the most rational way.
 <story> Imagine these two scenarios for example: In the first scenario, you’re given $1,000 and then must choose between receiving a definite $500 or taking a 50 percent chance to win another $1,000. In the second scenario, you’re given $2,000 and must then choose between a sure loss of $500 or taking a 50 percent chance on losing $1,000.
If we made purely rational choices, then we would make the same choice in both cases. But this isn’t the case. In the first instance, most people choose to take the sure bet, while in the second case, most people take a gamble.
Prospect theory helps to explain why this is the case. It highlights at least two reasons why we don’t always act rationally. Both of them feature our loss aversion — the fact that we fear losses more than we value gains.
The first reason is that we value things based on reference points. Starting with $1,000 or $2,000 in the two scenarios changes whether we’re willing to gamble, because the starting point affects how we value our position. The reference point in the first scenario is $1,000 and $2,000 in the second, which means ending up at $1,500 feels like a win in the first, but a distasteful loss in the second. Even though our reasoning here is clearly irrational, we understand value as much by our starting point as by the actual objective value. </story>  </story> at the time.
Second, we’re influenced by the diminishing sensitivity principle: the value we perceive may be different from its actual worth. For instance, going from $1,000 to $900 doesn’t feel as bad as going from $200 to $100, despite the monetary value of both losses being equal. Similarly in our example, the perceived value lost when going from $1,500 to $1,000 is greater than when going from $2,000 to $1,500.False images: why the mind builds complete pictures to explain the world, but they lead to overconfidence and mistakes.In order to understand situations, our minds naturally use cognitive coherence; we construct complete mental pictures to explain ideas and concepts. For example, we have many images in our brain for the weather. We have an image for, say, summer weather, which might be a picture of a bright, hot sun bathing us in heat.
As well as helping us to understand things, we also rely on these images when making a decision.
When we make decisions, we refer to these pictures and build our assumptions and conclusions based on them. For example,  <story> If we want to know what clothes to wear in summer, we base our decisions on our image of that season’s weather.
The problem is that we place too much confidence in these images. Even when available statistics and data disagree with our mental pictures, we still let the images guide us. In summer, the weather forecaster might predict relatively cool weather, yet you might still go out in shorts and a T-shirt, as that’s what your mental image of summer tells you to wear. You may then end up shivering outside! </story> 
We are, in short, massively overconfident of our often faulty mental images. But there are ways to overcome this overconfidence and start making better predictions.
One way to avoid mistakes is to utilize reference class forecasting. Instead of making judgments based on your rather general mental images, use specific historical examples to make a more accurate forecast. For example, think of the previous occasion you went out when it was a cold summer day. What did you wear then?
In addition, you can devise a long-term risk policy that plans specific measures in the case of both success and failure in forecasting. Through preparation and protection, you can rely on evidence instead of general mental pictures and make more accurate forecasts. In the case of our weather example, this could mean bringing along a sweater just to be safe.Final summaryThe key message of this book is:
Thinking, Fast and Slow shows us that our minds contain two systems. The first acts instinctively and requires little effort; the second is more deliberate and requires much more of our attention. Our thoughts and actions vary depending on which of the two systems is in control of our brain at the time.
Actionable advice
Repeat the message!
Messages are more persuasive when we’re repeatedly exposed to them. This is probably because we evolved in a way that made repeated exposure to things that had no bad consequences are deemed inherently good.
Don’t be influenced by rare statistical events that are over-reported in newspapers.
Disasters and other events are an important part of our history, but we often overestimate their statistical probability because of the vivid images we associate with them from the media.
You’re more creative and intuitive when you’re in a better mood.
When you’re in a better mood, the part of the mind that is alert and analytical tends to relax. That cedes control of your mind to the more intuitive and quicker thinking system, which also makes you more creative.
What’s in it for me? Discover the power of great timing. <story> Cats know this instinctively: You won’t catch a mouse if you rush things. You need to sit on the lookout for ages, waiting for the perfect moment to pounce.
As you’ll learn in these blinks, it’s no different for humans. If you want to succeed, you need impeccable timing. This entails the ability to wait patiently for opportunity just as much as the ability to act quickly when it finally comes along. </story> 
Waiting, even procrastinating, can help you become a better athlete, a savvier stock trader and a more successful marketing executive. What’s more, learning how to slow down will allow you to make better judgments in your personal life.
In these blinks, you’ll find out

why subliminal messages can make you crave more popcorn;
how fast computers contributed to a global financial market crisis; and
why a majority of doctors may be racist but not consciously know it.
In fast-paced sports such as tennis, timing is everything.During a gripping tennis match, have you ever stopped to contemplate the ridiculousness of watching two people hit a ball, back and forth? This simple act, nonetheless, is mesmerizing; and it has everything to do with the rhythm and timing of this popular game. 
Being a skilled tennis player isn’t just about good eyes and quick reactions. People tend to think that a tennis player’s talent is a product of his ability to rapidly ascertain the speed and trajectory of a ball. But the amount of time it takes for any person to visually register an action is more or less universal – around 200 milliseconds. 
Another misconception is that tennis talent is tied to reaction speed – that is, the faster you can react, the better you should play. This is only partially correct. The best tennis players in the world have the ability to wait that essential extra split-second before returning a volley. 
 <story> Once a player sees that his opponent is serving the ball, he has approximately 300 milliseconds to make a move. Most people move as quickly as they can, only to miss the ball altogether! 
Skilled players are different. They can and will wait up to 200 milliseconds, taking in as much visual information as possible, before hitting the ball. 
Many popular sports are in fact designed with this timing challenge in mind. If the space between a player and the net was greater, for example, a player would have more time to react. Conversely, if the distance was smaller, a player could only react in a knee-jerk fashion.
Tennis is a great example of the human capacity for preconscious preparatory skills. A player has just enough time to pause, letting his unconscious mind formulate the best response but not enough time to consciously plan a move. 
This sort of reaction isn’t exclusive to tennis champions, either. Split-second timing plays an essential role in business and finance, too. </story>  High-frequency trading dominates modern stock exchanges, but it comes with serious risks.Many of the things you do every day are made more efficient with computers. At the extreme end, markets are now dominated by high-frequency trading, the buying and selling of financial products at digital speeds. 
High-frequency trading now accounts for 70 percent of all stock transactions in the United States. But even in the fast-paced world of Wall Street, stock traders realized at a certain point that going faster doesn't necessarily mean higher profits. 
Let’s look at one example.  <story> Early on, the high-frequency trading firm UNX saw its profits rise when it increased the speed of its transactions. To further boost profits, the firm moved its headquarters from California to New York, reducing the distance electronic transactions would have to travel. In doing so, UNX cut transaction times from 65 milliseconds to 30 milliseconds. 
Yet the decision came with an unintended side-effect. Suddenly the company’s profits started dropping. Unable to figure out why, the firm decided to return transaction speeds to the slower pace of 65 milliseconds. And as a result, profits also returned to positive levels. 
So how can we explain what happened?
 <story> Yale professor Frank Zhang examined a stock market crash on May 6, 2010 that lasted just 18 minutes but resulted in losses of trillions of dollars. He found that the rapid pace of trading had drastically increased the volatility of the market, leading to extreme swings in the value of financial products. </story>  
So it turns out that when trading happens too fast, traders can get caught in wide price swings, potentially leading to serious losses especially in moments of crisis. Yet there is a “sweet” speed, that provides just enough delay for a trader to avoid expensive mistakes.  </story> 
Knowing this, financial experts are constantly seeking that “sweet” speed to optimize high-frequency trades. <story> Subliminal messages can have a profound effect, changing the way you act and think.Have you ever watched the cult classic, Fight Club? Did you know that the film also has a single frame showing a full-frontal nude male? A shocking move for an American blockbuster, for sure! 
While the only way the human eye can consciously “see” such an image is to watch the movie one frame at a time, the image can and does enter our subconscious, if even just for a millisecond. </story>  In fact, consumers have been wary of such “subliminal messages” for decades. 
 <story> In 1957, James Vicary was purported to have flashed subliminal messages on the screen of a New Jersey movie theater using a high-speed tachistoscope, a tool that projects images for a set duration. The images, which flashed too quickly for moviegoers to consciously perceive, supposedly urged them to eat popcorn and drink Coca-Cola. 
And guess what?
According to Vicary, that theater saw popcorn sales rise by 58 percent and Coca-Cola sales jump by 18 percent. Once Vicary’s experiment went public, however, it caused a big scandal, with the public expressing hostility toward advertising agencies. 
Yet later Vicary said he lied about the experiment; decades afterward study after study failed to prove with certainty the effect of subliminal images on human behavior. </story>  
 <story> Recently, however, new evidence has come to light suggesting that subliminal images can, in fact, produce a long-term effect on human behavior. In 2008, a study found that repeatedly flashing the Apple logo to people without their knowledge increased creativity, more than for those who were subliminally shown the IBM logo. </story>  
Even prior to this,  <story> another study showed that people who were exposed to messages or words related to old age or aging actually changed their behavior, and began to walk more slowly, perform worse in memory tests and even became more politically conservative! </story> 
These experiments show that if you want to deliver a message, one strategy is to display it just long enough to have an effect, but still short enough so that people cannot consciously perceive it. 
So now we know that timing plays a serious role in how we live and think. Yet how can you use timing to achieve your personal goals?When making decisions under pressure remember to ask yourself whether you’re an expert or a novice.Imagine you’re the captain of a football team. There’s 30 seconds left on the clock, and it’s up to you to make a game-changing decision. In such high-stakes moments, you need to know what you’re doing – and if you’re the captain, you probably do. 
 <story> Experts don’t need to think before making a decision. In 1985, psychologist Gary Klein interviewed fireground commanders, the people in charge of firefighting operations, to determine how they made decisions in emergency situations. 
Their answers were unanimous, in that they said they knew what to do, without deliberation, based on their experience. If a fire had spread, they would focus on rescuing people; if the fire was just beginning to spread, they would direct efforts toward putting it out. 
Yet novices can’t trust gut instincts, because they don’t necessarily have them yet. </story>   <story> Klein performed another study in which paramedics and medical students watched videos of six people performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). 
The participants didn’t know that only one of the six people in the videos was an actual paramedic. When asked which person they’d trust most to resuscitate them in an emergency, 90 percent of the paramedics instinctively chose the most qualified person, the paramedic. Yet just 30 percent of the students were able to identify the professional from the rest. </story> 
Remember that no one can be an expert in every situation. This means when a scenario presents something new, you become a novice and should take your time making decisions. 
 <story> US Navy Captain William Rogers could quickly discern enemy planes from civilian ones, but only when he had access to information provided by the ship’s controls. On one fateful day in 1988, the ship’s controls failed, and with this, Rogers ceased to function at an expert level. 
Under pressure, he made a wrong decision, shooting down a suspicious-looking plane that turned out to be a civilian airliner. His mistake resulted in the deaths of 290 civilians. Thinking too quickly or going with your gut can lead to unintentional discrimination. </story> If you had to pick out a racist in a crowd, what markers would you look for? Someone with a shaved head, or with racist-themed tattoos, or someone who resembles your doctor?
Interestingly, many physicians without consciously realizing it give better care to white people than to black people. Over a hundred scientific studies have confirmed this troubling fact.
If a white patient is suffering from chronic kidney failure, for instance, a doctor will be likely to recommend a transplant – the best, most expensive treatment option. The same holds for prescribing thrombolytic drugs to prevent heart attacks. But the same doctors will hesitate to offer equivalent care if the patient is black. 
So when judging people, it’s better to question your initial response. While you can certainly make an instantaneous judgment about a person, know that your first impression can prove inaccurate when discerning certain characteristics. 
A 2007 study led by psychologist Dana Carney found that when assessing complex human features like sociability and open-mindedness, a person’s estimates are more on point if a person takes at least five minutes to think about it. 
Waiting before you make up your mind about someone allows you the chance to change or modify your gut reaction. So while the unconscious racism of doctors might be troubling, the good news is that such patterns can be changed. 
In fact, when doctors had their attention drawn to this implicit bias, they started prescribing more medication to their black patients than to their white patients.Managing your time wisely and taking time to think can help you find a life partner.Have you ever attended a speed-dating event, in which you quickly move from one potential partner to the next? Such methods may be misguided, as experience has shown that taking your time to find love is generally a more successful strategy. 
When it comes to finding a partner, instant decisions can work against you. Online dating sites place an emphasis on photos, allowing a user to flip through and rapidly approve or disapprove of a person’s looks. This kind of superficial judgement can be counterproductive. 
 <story> Irene LaCota, president of the dating service It’s Just Lunch, refuses on principle to let people see photos of a potential match. She thinks the quick reactions people make based on physical appearance are flawed. </story>  After all, such assumptions have nothing to do with whether two people are actually compatible. 
When it comes to first dates, of course, timing is key. The goal of any first date is to decide whether you want to meet for a second! Thus, you need to get enough information about the other person to be able to trust your instincts. Yet it’s also important to stop before things get too personal, otherwise, you might feel obliged to accept a second date, regardless of how you feel. 
So how can you accomplish both goals? By scheduling your first date at lunch. Doing lunch gives you enough time to meet, but keeps things short – after all, you’ve got to get back to work. The hour or so you’ve spent with the person gives you ample material to form a first impression; and now you’ve the freedom to think things over before agreeing to a second meeting. 
Sure, sometimes you might want to make a snap decision, but it’s better to wait and think about your choice – even if things take a little longer. While you can decide whether someone is attractive in a heartbeat, it takes time to figure out how you really feel inside. By investing that time, you can increase your chances of finding a partner for life!People are prone to procrastination because of the tendency to overrate short-term benefits.Do you ever put off a task you hate, like doing your taxes? Of course you do. Here’s why. 
 <story> Humans aren’t great at comparing short-term and long-term benefits. Psychiatrist George Ainslie found that, when offered a choice between $50 now and $100 in the future, most people chose the $50 up front. 
But he also found that the same people would rather receive $100 dollars in six years than $50 in five years – which is essentially the same offer, just five years in the future. 
The decision is skewed by short-term benefits in the first instance, but not in the second. And it’s for this same reason that people tend to choose being happy now over being happy later. </story>  This is what causes us to postpone things that might diminish our current pleasure, like filing our taxes. 
In fact, procrastination is only a bad thing if you falsely discount the future effects of your actions. Not just that, but one benefit of procrastination is that it can make your life better in the short term. 
For instance, say you’re driving home from work and hear your engine rattling. Would you stop at a repair shop to check it out, or go home and see if the sound disappears on its own?
After a long day at the office, the second choice has profound short-term benefits. You’ll get to return to a warm house, a nourishing meal and a relaxing night. 
Furthermore, a little procrastination also helps you think things over before rushing to a decision. For example, in the moment, your only option along the route home might be the most expensive repair shop in town. 
However, if you stick to this pattern for too long, it will lead to problems. In this case, your car will eventually break down. Then you’ll have to wait for a tow truck and face a bigger repair bill than if you had addressed the issue earlier. Some procrastination can be useful, but measuring it out is a matter of experience.Do the people you admire the most rush around frantically, or are they composed, persistent and always watching for opportunity?
When it comes to the positive side of procrastination, there’s a lot to be learned from successful people. For instance, investor Warren Buffett is a huge proponent of delaying decisions. In fact, for him, a solid investment strategy is to wait patiently. 
But that doesn’t mean you should be lazy. In fact, Buffett works hard every day, following financial news and business developments. This means he’s always poised to act whenever the next investment opportunity rears its head. 
 <story> President Barack Obama also deftly uses delay to his advantage, especially when diplomatically side-stepping tough interview questions. When Osama bin Laden was captured by US forces on May 2, 2011, Obama gave a 35-minute interview to CBS correspondent Steve Kroft. 
In what turned out to be a highly dynamic interview, Kroft asked the president out of the blue if this event was the first time he had ordered someone to be killed. 
Obama, however, didn’t jump to answer. He bided his time, avoiding the pointed question about illegal government assassinations, and instead carefully composed a statement about sending troops into combat with the awareness that lives would be lost.  </story> 
So delay can be useful in all aspects of life. These blinks have provided you with the knowledge of experts, showing you how to avoid the mistake of acting too quickly. So wait!Final summaryThe key message in this book:
Despite what most of us have been taught, procrastination and delaying action are not necessarily bad. In fact, there are many instances in which taking your time is instrumental to success. That’s because waiting, when used with critical awareness, can help you achieve amazing things. 
Actionable advice:
Revamp your dating profile.
Are you one of those people who is always saying you wish the world was less superficial? Here’s your chance to do something. Remove all the photos from your online dating profiles and write something thoughtful and honest about yourself instead. And if a first date isn’t immediately attractive to you, take the time to listen to what he or she is saying, and think before you write them off. 
Got feedback?
We’d sure love to hear what you think about our content! Just drop an email to remember@blinkist.com with the title of this book as the subject line and share your thoughts!
Suggested further reading: Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman
Daniel Kahneman’s Thinking, Fast and Slow – a recapitulation of the decades of research that led to his winning the Nobel Prize – explains his contributions to our current understanding of psychology and behavioral economics. Over the years, Kahneman and his colleagues, whose work the book discusses at length, have significantly contributed to a new understanding of the human mind. We now have a better understanding of how decisions are made, why certain judgment errors are so common and how we can improve ourselves. 
Let ideas and opinions flow freely: encourage candor and give everyone a voice.We are all taught that in certain situations it’s polite to bend the truth: you don’t badmouth your mother’s cooking or call your best friend fat, for example. But this lack of candor becomes troublesome when it seeps into organizational culture.
It is all too common that in business, people simply do not express themselves frankly enough. They withhold criticism and new ideas for fear of upsetting others or causing conflict. They want to seem like team players, not jerks.
But honest and open communication carries many benefits. A frank environment allows everyone to contribute ideas as well as improve on them. When honest opinions are voiced loudly and quickly, proposals can be evaluated and, if necessary, shot down much faster.
Likely, the majority of people at your company don't contribute their ideas or opinions, probably because they feel they can't. This is an immense waste of brainpower.
Of course, introducing candor into an ingrained “make nice” culture is very difficult, and doing so can even hurt your career if you’re seen as a troublemaker. It certainly helps if you’re the boss, but it’s still no picnic. You must talk about candor, reward it and demonstrate it yourself.
 <story> Ask people for their input, and help them feel comfortable giving it. At General Electric (GE), this was achieved by intermittently gathering groups of 30 to 100 employees together to discuss better ways of doing things, without their bosses present. This allowed the employees to talk anonymously and form proposals that their bosses were obliged to address – and quickly. These Work-Out sessions were so successful they became an integral part of GE’s problem-solving process. </story> 
Let ideas and opinions flow freely: encourage candor and give everyone a voice.Evaluate and differentiate your people with the 20-70-10 method, and make managing them a priority.Managers often relegate the task of people management – that is, keeping your staff motivated and helping them to develop and work together – to the sidelines while they focus on strategy, products, sourcing, and pretty much everything else. But good people management is one of the best ways a manager can help their company.
Hence, make it a priority. Start by elevating the status of human resources (HR) management. The head of HR should have at least as important a role in the company as the chief financial officer. Populate the HR department with individuals you think can help your employees to advance their careers and develop as leaders.
The most important part of people management is having a simple, fair and rigorously enforced employee evaluation system in place. This system tells you who your top performers are and helps you to reward them accordingly.
Use the 20-70-10 mix to differentiate among your employees. The top 20 percent – the stars – deserve praise, recognition and training, and of course monetary rewards too (the backbone of any effective incentive).
The bottom 10 percent simply must go – there is no sugar-coating this. Comfort yourself with the fact that these employees often find more suitable companies and roles later on.
The tricky part is managing the mid-performing 70 percent. They comprise the majority of your staff; hence, you must keep them motivated and engaged. Your emphasis should be on setting bold goals for them and trying to coach and lift them into the top 20 percent.
Evaluate and differentiate your people with the 20-70-10 method, and make managing them a priority.Be selective and meticulous when hiring, transparent and fair when firing.Great people are everywhere, but finding them is difficult. Before you even consider hiring someone, ensure they pass three acid tests:
First, they must have integrity, meaning they are candid, honest and reputable.
Second, they must be intelligent so that they can work effectively with other smart people. This does not mean they must be Ivy League graduates; some great GE executives have graduated from the obscurest places like the University of Dubuque, Iowa.
Finally, candidates must demonstrate maturity, meaning they can deal with stress and setbacks, and exhibit that certain mixture of confidence and humility that experience brings.
In evaluating candidates, your only solid tools are interviews and background checks; but do not ignore your gut instincts, especially for hard-to-verify traits like integrity.
If the acid tests are passed, you can move on to the actual selection phase. Choose people who exude positive energy and who are generally optimistic and sociable. They should be genuinely excited about work and be able to inspire and energize those around them.
Successful candidates must also be effective, meaning that they can make tough decisions even when they don’t have all the information and then execute those decisions to get the job done.
Though hiring the right people is difficult, firing the wrong ones can be messy. However, as long as your performance-evaluation system is candid and transparent, it should come as no surprise to someone that they are about to be let go. Just ensure there is no humiliation for the person in question, and don’t ostracize them from your organization. Instead, rebuild their self-confidence to help them have a soft landing at their next job.
Be selective and meticulous when hiring, transparent and fair when firing.To be a good leader, focus on your people, lead by example and don’t worry about being popular.Leadership is all about developing your people. Evaluate them, coach them and inspire them every chance you get. Tell them about your vision for the company, encourage them to live and breathe your vision, and reward those who do.
Sometimes leadership is about being a shining beacon of inspiration. Negativity, distrust and fear can paralyze any organization; hence, you must exude a contagious positive energy that helps everyone stay optimistic and confident in the face of challenges.
It is your responsibility to bring out the best in your team, and you need their trust to do so. First of all, show them that you are trustworthy: be honest, give credit fairly, and never “steal” ideas for yourself or hog all the glory. </story> 
You should also show your team that failure is acceptable as long as lessons are learned from it. Demonstrate this by taking risks yourself and openly discussing your mistakes. This will encourage your staff to boldly pursue opportunities. </story> 
Sometimes being a leader means you have to make tough, unpopular calls. Don’t shy away from them – you’re not a politician up for election. It’s also your job to rock the boat when no-one else wants to. If you’re concerned about something, you must relentlessly hound the person responsible with questions until they act.
Finally, as a leader, make sure everyone celebrates when it is merited, and make a big deal out of your team’s every achievement.
To be a good leader, focus on your people, lead by example and don’t worry about being popular.Your mission says how you intend to win, and your values demonstrate the behaviors that will get you there.“Mission statement” and “values” are surely two of the most overused and misunderstood concepts in business. Too often, senior management will debate these topics for days, only to come up with platitudes like “Our mission is to be a customer-driven company” and “We value quality and integrity.” Is there a company on earth that wouldn’t espouse these vague statements?  <story> Good mission statements and values are so tangible you can almost hit someone in the face with them.
An effective mission statement basically just answers the question “How do we intend to win in this business?” GE, for example, decided they would be number one or number two in every market they operated in, fixing or getting rid of every one of their businesses where this was not the case. This is an effective mission: specific, descriptive, ambitious. </story> 
If the mission statement is the goal, then values are the way to achieve that goal. Hence, the two must be mutually reinforcing.  <story> Values are clearly-defined behaviors you want your employees to exhibit. Some real-life examples from GE include instructions like “Be intolerant of bureaucracy” and “See change for the growth opportunity it brings.” </story> 
Defining values is an iterative process, where everyone in the company participates in an open discussion. Whatever values you eventually land on, you must reinforce them vigorously. Publicly reward people who live by them and punish those who don’t. The employees will see and appreciate the fact that the company truly lives its values.
Your mission says how you intend to win, and your values demonstrate the behaviors that will get you there.Strategy is simple: choose a winning move, and then get the right people and practices to implement it.Strategy is not rocket science, nor complicated academics. The core of any strategy is a so-called big aha: a smart way to gain a sustainable competitive advantage.
You find the big aha by assembling your senior management to analyze and discuss your business. Start by examining your current playing field. Who are your customers and competitors? What’s the market like? This discussion alone can be surprisingly enlightening, as a variety of viewpoints emerges.
Next, you look at what the competitors have been up to and contrast this with what you’ve done recently. This comparison might well tell you that you are standing still while your competitors are innovating.
Next, consider the future of the industry. What scares you? What new products might your competitors launch? Always assume they are smart – at least as smart as you – and willing to move much faster.
Finally, commit to action. What exactly are you going to do to win? As a senior manager, answering this question – coming up with the big aha – is your responsibility.
To implement your big aha, you need the right people in the right jobs. For example, to innovate you need dreamers and visionaries, whereas to cut costs you need efficiency experts.
Finally,  <story> You must find and implement best practices from wherever you can. When GE wanted to improve its inventory turnover, it began visiting the factories of American Standard, a toilet bowl manufacturer that boasted excellent inventory turnover. </story> 
But don’t rest on your laurels. Ensure everyone constantly works to improve these best practices – make it your company’s religion.
Strategy is simple: choose a winning move, and then get the right people and practices to implement it.Forget rigid annual budgeting – planning should be flexible and motivating.The traditional budgeting process – the battle of numbers between headquarters and field managers ­– is one of the most ineffective exercises in all of business.
Say headquarters wants a division to deliver 12 percent growth the next year, whereas the division manager insists 6 percent is far more realistic. Headquarters wants to set the goals high, but the division manager wants to set easy goals to ensure his performance bonus.
In the end, they compromise on 9 percent. When the target is hit, both sides are fairly happy. The problem? No-one stops to wonder if they could have achieved 12 percent, 15 percent or even 20 percent growth.
Or what about the field manager who is passionate about a genuinely lucrative project and fights to get an investment from headquarters to pursue it. The trouble is, headquarters decided on their investment allocation long before the budgeting process; hence, they smile politely and decline, leaving the field manager frustrated at this squandered chance.
Changing this age-old game is difficult. Instead of budgets, you need flexible operating plans; and instead of annual goals set in stone, you need stretch targets that can be revised as the situation develops. Field managers and headquarters should discuss these openly with the mutual goal of first maximizing earnings growth and then allocating investments and setting targets accordingly.
 <story> GE no longer compares performance to budgets at all but rather to the prior year’s performance and to that of competitors. Thus, even seemingly great results might not merit praise if the year has been easy and competitors have fared even better. Conversely, even if a division performed very poorly, it may be excused if its competitors did even worse. </story> 
Forget rigid annual budgeting – planning should be flexible and motivating.Get enthusiastic with new ventures but be cautious with acquisitions. <story> Starting something new in business, whether launching a new product or entering a new market, is very exciting; but for any new venture to succeed, you need to give it lots of love and special treatment. Don’t make the all too common mistake of under-doing and under-spending; no venture can survive with poor resources and lackluster people.
Instead, put your smartest and most passionate people on the new business and grant them a lot of freedom and autonomy – they are, after all, like entrepreneurs! Make a big hoopla about them, give them plenty of resources and act as their cheerleader every chance you have. </story>  they need all the support they can get! You’ll look like an idiot if they fail, but that is a risk you must take.
On the other hand, when you’re acquiring a company, you should avoid getting overly excited, because so-called deal heat can blur your judgment.
In deal heat, managers might, for example, ignore the complete mismatch between the cultures of the acquirer and the target, which will greatly complicate integration. Or they might be so hungry for the target they agree to absurd terms or to such a ridiculously high price it can never be recouped. Stop to at least calmly consider these potential pitfalls before getting excited.
The only part of an acquisition to charge forward with enthusiastically is the integration phase: it should take 90 days at the most. Don’t pretend that two equals have merged; ultimately there is always an acquirer and a target, and the acquirer must take the lead in post-merger actions. Get rid of the resisters and promote the people who are on board with the integration.
Get enthusiastic with new ventures but be cautious with acquisitions.Make a case for change, and then focus on those who follow you and ferret out those who don’t. <story> Most people acknowledge that change is a critical part of any business, but they hate it nonetheless. When The Times of London changed to tabloid format, the editor got an email asking how it felt to be the person responsible for the fall of Western civilization. </story> 
One reason employees hate change initiatives is because they often don’t understand the reasons behind the change. This makes every initiative seem like just another flavor of the month, to be ignored till it goes away.
To avoid this, you should attach every change initiative to a clear purpose: argue your case with data and relentless communication. Sometimes this is easy, like when your industry is in trouble, but at other times you need to present a solid business-case for change.
Change resistance can kill even the best initiatives, so you need to get rid of the resisters early on. Put change in the hands of people who will get behind it. Hire and promote true believers to act as change agents, and surround them with people who seem eager to get on with the new way of doing business.
As an employee, resisting change – whether a strategic shift, new best practices or post-merger integration – is always bad for your career. Managers like people who are on their team and who help rather than hinder their initiatives. Do yourself a favor and get on board.
Make a case for change, and then focus on those who follow you and ferret out those who don’t.Crises will happen – always assume the worst and try to learn from them.As long as companies are made up of human beings,  <story> Mistakes, controversies and integrity violations will happen. They are inevitable and often spin out of control into full-blown crises.
For example, one of GE’s sales managers was caught bribing a general in the Israeli Air Force, which embroiled GE in a huge scandal. Another time, GE was accused of defrauding the US government by filing inaccurate timecards at a plant that made missile cones.
As a leader, it is your job to navigate crises in such a way that your company emerges from them stronger than ever.
Start with prevention: take steps to  <story> Avoid as many crises as possible, and use rigorous processes and controls to evaluate your people carefully and impose strict financial discipline in your company. Make your culture one of integrity, and enforce this vigorously. If someone breaks the rules, do not allow them to leave quietly due to “personal reasons.” Instead, make an example of them and fire them publicly.
Nevertheless, crises will happen, and they will usually take you by surprise. Do yourself a favor and skip the usual denial phase. Immediately assume that the problem is probably far worse than it initially seems, that all your dirty secrets will come out, and that the media will portray everything in the worst possible light. And yes, probably blood will be spilt and people will be fired.
Facing these facts helps you take ownership; you should expose and define the problem before anyone else does. </story> 
Most importantly, remember the lessons you learn from each crisis; the next one might be just around the corner.
Crises will happen – always assume the worst and try to learn from them.Try different jobs till you find one that excites you. <story> People rarely know exactly what they want to do at the start of their career. For example, the CEO of Procter & Gamble, A.G. Lafley, originally wanted to be a professor of Renaissance history. </story> 
The fact is,  <story> Finding a great job makes your life much more rewarding and exciting. Consider the man Jack Welch once met on holiday who gushed with pride as he proclaimed he was the “first mercury-free dentist in Quechee, Vermont!” Only genuine excitement in what you do can produce such enthusiasm. </story> 
So how do you find the right job? Simple: through iteration. You need to think about what things are important to you and what tradeoffs you are willing to make (for example, between money and spare time), and then try a job you think suits you. Even if that job isn’t right for you, at least it will teach you more about what you’re looking for and help you choose your next endeavor.
Just don’t stop until you find something that you, personally, feel excited about. Of course you should also consider how you fit in with the people at work and what kind of growth and career opportunities the job provides, but at the end of the day, you need to feel your job has personal meaning to you. Don’t embody the sad tale of a young Harvard graduate who loved cars so much he constantly doodled them in his notebook but still ended up working 80-hour weeks in banking just to please his father. Life is too short to live someone else’s dreams.
Try different jobs till you find one that excites you.To advance your career, deliver phenomenal results and don’t be a thorn in your boss’s backside.While careers are never entirely predictable and always involve an element of chance, there are certain behaviors that certainly help you become successful.
Start by exceeding everyone’s expectations; everyone loves positive surprises. Be upbeat and enthusiastic, perform phenomenally, and actively expand the horizons of your job. Take the lead in championing new projects and initiatives at your company, especially the ones that others seem too busy to take on.
Also, be sure you enlist the help of others, both above and below you in the organization. Seek guidance and mentorship from many different sources, and try to learn from each one. Your subordinates can also help you advance if you treat them fairly; their opinion is important when promotion is discussed.
Whatever you do, don’t make life difficult for your boss by forcing him to constantly defend your actions or bail you out trouble. For example, if you resist management initiatives or violate your company’s values, not even a solid performance will save you from your boss’s ire.
Another way you might get on your boss’s nerves is by making work-life balance a huge problem. Of course, no boss wants to deny you time with your hobbies or family, but the fact is that the company’s competitiveness is more important. Ultimately, any career demands trade-offs, and as an employee it is up to you to decide which trade-offs you wish to make. Above all, don’t let your boss think you’re unmotivated or entitled by making demands before you’ve earned your stripes; demonstrate a solid performance before asking for any work-life considerations.
To advance your career, deliver phenomenal results and don’t be a thorn in your boss’s backside.Final summaryThe questions this book answered:
Successful leaders are great at managing people: they evaluate them through a transparent and fair system, coach them to advance on their careers, and instill such a culture of candor and integrity that everyone wants to share their ideas and improve the way business is done. Get excited about what you’re doing and make sure your people are too.
The questions this book answered:
How should you manage your people?

Let ideas and opinions flow freely: encourage candor and give everyone a voice.
Evaluate and differentiate your people with the 20-70-10 method, and make managing them a priority.
Be selective and meticulous when hiring, transparent and fair when firing.
To be a good leader, focus on your people, lead by example and don’t worry about being popular.
How should you manage strategy, growth, change and crises?

Your mission says how you intend to win, and your values demonstrate the behaviors that will get you there.
Strategy is simple: choose a winning move, and then get the right people and practices to implement it.
Forget rigid annual budgeting – planning should be flexible and motivating.
Get enthusiastic with new ventures but be cautious with acquisitions.
Make a case for change, and then focus on those who follow you and ferret out those who don’t.
Crises will happen – always assume the worst and try to learn from them.
How can you have a successful career? 

Try different jobs till you find one that excites you.
To advance your career, deliver phenomenal results and don’t be a thorn in your boss’s backside.
