What’s in it for me? Discover the power of great timing.<story>Cats know this instinctively: You won’t catch a mouse if you rush things. You need to sit on the lookout for ages, waiting for the perfect moment to pounce. As you’ll learn in these blinks, it’s no different for humans. If you want to succeed, you need impeccable timing. This entails the ability to wait patiently for opportunity just as much as the ability to act quickly when it finally comes along.</story> Waiting, even procrastinating, can help you become a better athlete, a savvier stock trader and a more successful marketing executive. What’s more, learning how to slow down will allow you to make better judgments in your personal life. In these blinks, you’ll find out why subliminal messages can make you crave more popcorn; how fast computers contributed to a global financial market crisis; and why a majority of doctors may be racist but not consciously know it. In fast-paced sports such as tennis, timing is everything.During a gripping tennis match, have you ever stopped to contemplate the ridiculousness of watching two people hit a ball, back and forth? This simple act, nonetheless, is mesmerizing; and it has everything to do with the rhythm and timing of this popular game. Being a skilled tennis player isn’t just about good eyes and quick reactions. People tend to think that a tennis player’s talent is a product of his ability to rapidly ascertain the speed and trajectory of a ball. But the amount of time it takes for any person to visually register an action is more or less universal – around 200 milliseconds. Another misconception is that tennis talent is tied to reaction speed – that is, the faster you can react, the better you should play. This is only partially correct. The best tennis players in the world have the ability to wait that essential extra split-second before returning a volley. <story>Once a player sees that his opponent is serving the ball, he has approximately 300 milliseconds to make a move. Most people move as quickly as they can, only to miss the ball altogether! Skilled players are different. They can and will wait up to 200 milliseconds, taking in as much visual information as possible, before hitting the ball. Many popular sports are in fact designed with this timing challenge in mind. If the space between a player and the net was greater, for example, a player would have more time to react. Conversely, if the distance was smaller, a player could only react in a knee-jerk fashion. Tennis is a great example of the human capacity for preconscious preparatory skills. A player has just enough time to pause, letting his unconscious mind formulate the best response but not enough time to consciously plan a move. This sort of reaction isn’t exclusive to tennis champions, either. Split-second timing plays an essential role in business and finance, too.</story> High-frequency trading dominates modern stock exchanges, but it comes with serious risks.Many of the things you do every day are made more efficient with computers. At the extreme end, markets are now dominated by high-frequency trading, the buying and selling of financial products at digital speeds. High-frequency trading now accounts for 70 percent of all stock transactions in the United States. But even in the fast-paced world of Wall Street, stock traders realized at a certain point that going faster doesn't necessarily mean higher profits. Let’s look at one example. <story>Early on, the high-frequency trading firm UNX saw its profits rise when it increased the speed of its transactions. To further boost profits, the firm moved its headquarters from California to New York, reducing the distance electronic transactions would have to travel. In doing so, UNX cut transaction times from 65 milliseconds to 30 milliseconds. Yet the decision came with an unintended side-effect. Suddenly the company’s profits started dropping. Unable to figure out why, the firm decided to return transaction speeds to the slower pace of 65 milliseconds. And as a result, profits also returned to positive levels. So how can we explain what happened? <story>Yale professor Frank Zhang examined a stock market crash on May 6, 2010 that lasted just 18 minutes but resulted in losses of trillions of dollars. He found that the rapid pace of trading had drastically increased the volatility of the market, leading to extreme swings in the value of financial products.</story> So it turns out that when trading happens too fast, traders can get caught in wide price swings, potentially leading to serious losses especially in moments of crisis. Yet there is a “sweet” speed, that provides just enough delay for a trader to avoid expensive mistakes. 